
FiAM Nay,  mother,  now 

You  make  me  blush  to  think  that  I  could  give 
More  than  my  thanks  at  first  to  one  of  whom 
I  know  so  little  ;  grateful  thanks,  'tis  true, 
Most  grateful, — but — I'm  sure  you  think  a  man 
Should  shew  that  he  has  picked  up  a  few  qualities 
As  well  as  ladies,  ere  he  picks  our  hearts. 
My  brother,  to  be  sure,  is  fond  of  truth, 
Extremely  fond, — but  then  as  uncle  said — 

Enter  CAfiDi\s,  followed  ly  Molino,  Contarini,  and  Malipiero. 

Cand.  And  what  did  uncle  say  ?     Ladies,  allow  me — 
The  Signor  Malipiero,  a  sad  gentleman. 
Who  thinks  it  necessary  to  apologize 
For  not  being  a  king-fisher. — We  found  him 
Eyeing  his  would-be  element  at  the  door. 

Mal.  Nay,  Sir,  I  yield  to  none  in  hearty  chearfulness ; 
And  as  I  hope  and  thiak  the  best  of  others, 
'Tis  thought,  I  trust,  of  me:  and  yet,  dear  ladies, 
A  man  may  reasonably  regret,  that  chance 
Should  on  the  turn,  as  'twere,  of  one  swift  instantj 
Whisk  him  from  shewing  all  his  zeal  for  ye. 

ViT.  My  daughter  loves  a  good  intention.  Sir, 
Too  well  to  make  it  answerable  to  fortune. 

Mal.  (to  Fiam.)  Then,  Madam,  I  may  hope  that  this  omission 
Will  not  be  held  a  punishable  sin. 
When  heavenly  eyes  look  down  upon  one's  homage. 

Fiam.  If  you  mean  my  eyes,  Signor  Malipiero, 
Which  heaven  forbid  should  look  down  on  tall  gentlemen^ 
1  think  no  evil  of  our  other  friends  here. 
And  why  should  I  of  you  ? 

Cand.  Come,  Malipiero, 

Settle  these  grave  state  questions  by  and  bye. 
For  here's  Sebastian  and  the  Englishman : 
I  saw  them  from  the  window,  coming  in. 

Enter  Servant. 
Signor  Sebastian,  and  his  noble  friend.  Sir. 

Enter  Sebastian  and  Waiter  Herbert. 

Seb.  Dear  mother,  uncle,  sister  sweet,  and  gentlemen, 
I  need  not  introduce  my  noble  friend 
And  your's — the  Signor  Walter  Herbert,  Englishman. 
Dear  Walter,  this  is  the  affectionate  circle 
I've  told  you  of  so  often.     Heaven  be  praised 
You're  in  the  midst  of  it,  and  have  been  so. 

Cand.  Our  silence.  Sir,  must  shew  you  what  we  feel. 
This  ready  swiftness  to  oblige  your  friends. 
Is,  I  perceive,  a  habit  with  you. 

Herb.  If,  Sir, 

Winning  their  ready  kindness  be  obliging  them. 
'Tis  counted  so  by  some. 

Vit.  Sir,  the  best  thanks 

A  mother  can  pay  to  you,  who  has  been 
Made  breathless  with  two  rushing  visitations. 
Terror  and  joy,  is  to  shew  what  you  saved  for  her : — 
My  daughter.  Sir. 

Herb.  A  pearl  indeed,  whose  sight 

Would  pay  a  fathomless  plunge. 

Fiam.  I  cannot.  Sir, 

Pay  compliments ;  I  fear,  I  had  expected — 
I  thank  you,  Sir,  from  bottom  of  my  heart. 