strength seemed to fail him in proportion as it became necessary. Suddenly the voice came back again. It advances. Other voices are heard, all advancing. In a short time, figures come hastily down the slope by the side of his cavern, looking over into tlie area before it as they descend. They enter. They are before him and about him. Some of thetii, in a Scandinavian habit, prostrate themselves at his feet, and address him in an unknown language. But these are sent away by another, who remains with none but two youths. Ronald has risen a little, and leans his back against the rock. One of the youths puts his arm between his neck and the rock, and half kneels beside him, turning his face away and Aveeping. " I km no god, nor a favourite of gods, as these people supposed ine," said Ro- nald, looking up at the chief who was speaking to the other youth : — " if thou wilt dispatch me then, do so. I only pray thee to let the death be fit for a warrior, such as I once Was." The chief appeared agitated. " Speak not ill of the gods, Ronald," said he, " although thou wert blindly brought up. A warrior like thee must be a fa- vourite of heaven. 1 come to prove it to thee: Dost thou not know me ? I come to give thee life for life." Ronald looked more stead- 'fastly. It was the Scandinavian prince wliom he had spared, be- cause of iiis bride, in battle. He smiled, and lifted up his hand to him, which was inteicepted and kissed by the youth who held his arm round his neck. " Who are these fair youths?" said Ronald, half turning his head to look in his supporter's face. " This is the bride] spoke of," ans\Vered the prince, " who insisted on sharing this voyage with me, and put on this dress to be the bolder in it." "And who is the other?" The other, with dried eyes, looked smiling into his, and intercepted the answer also. — " Who," said the sweetest voice in the world', " can it be, but one?" — With a quick and almost fierce tone, Ronald cried out aloud "1 know the voice;" and he would have fallen fiat on the earth, if they had not all three sup- ported him. 
It was a mild return to Inistore, Ronald gathering strength all the way at the ey«s and voice of Moilena, and the hands of all three. Their discovery of him was easily explained. The crews Of the ves- sels, who had been afraid to come nearer, had repeatedly seen a figure on the island making signs. The Scandinavian priests related how they had left Ronald there, but insisted -that no human being could live upon it, and that sonie god wished to manifest himself to big faithful worshippers. The heart of MoUena was quick to guess the- truth. The pi ince ])ro])osed to accompany the priests. His bride and the destined bride of his saviour went with him, and returned as you heard ; and from that day forth many were the songs in Inistore, upon the fortunes of the Perfect Hand and the kindness of the Per- fect Voice. Nor were those forgotten, who forgot not others.