JC.:' 


M 


DUKE 

UNIVERSITY 

LIBRARY 


Treasure  %oom 


THE 


INDICATOR. 


VOL.  I. 


A  dram  oFaweftl  f»  worth  a  pound  ofeour. — Spbnsek. 


123652 


LONDON: 


i»RlNTEO  FOR  JOSEPH  APPLEYARD,  CATHERINE-STREET,  STRAND, 

AND    SOLD    BV    ALT.   THE    BOOKSELLERS, 


1820. 


V  '1  i 


.  Treaeuve  Room  |^    <^i^.|  "^ 

THE    INDICATOR. 

There  is  a  bird  ill  the  interior  of  Africa,  whose  habits  would  rather  seem  to  belong  to  the  interior  of 
Fairy-land:  bnt  they  have  been,  well  authenticated.  It  indicates  to  honey-hunters  where  the  nests  of  wild 
bees  are  to  be  found.  It  calls  them  with  a  cheerful  cry,  which  they  answer;  and  on  finding  itself  recognized, 
flies  and  hovers  over  a  hollow  tree  containing  the  honey.  While  they  are  occupied  in  collecting  it,  the  bird 
goes  to  a  little  distance,  where  he  observes  all  that  passes;  and  the  hunters,  wnen  they  have  helped  them- 
selves, take  care  to  leave  him  his  portion  of  the  food.— This  is  the  Cucolus-Indicator  of  Linnaeus,  otherwise 
called  the  Moroc,  Bee  Cuck«o,  or  Honey  Bird. 

There  he  arriving  round  about  doth  flie. 

And  taKes  survey  with  busie,  curious  eye< 

Now  this,  now  that,  he  tasteth  tend^^ly.— §pbnseb. 


rs^A   tin 


Ko.  L— WEDNESDAY,  OCTOBER  13th,  1819. 


IT  is  the  object  of  this  periodical  work  to  notice  any  subjects  whatsoever 
within  the  range  of  the  Editor's  knowledge  or  reading.  He  will  take  them 
up,  as  they  happen  to  suggest  themselves ;  and  endeavour  to  point  out  their 
essence  to  the  reader,  so  as  at  once  to  be  brief  and  satisfactory.  The  subjects 
will  chiefly  consist  of  curious  recollections  of  biography  j  short  disquisitions 
on  men  and  things  5  the  most  interesting  stories  in  history  or  fiction  told 
over  again,  with  an  eye  to  their  proper  appreciation  by  unvulgar  minds ; 
and  now  and  then  a  few  original  verses.  Indeed  the  whole  matter,  what- 
ever the  subject  may  be,  will  be  strictly  original,  in  one  sense  of  the  word ; 
arid  it  wiU  be  the  Editor's  aim,  as  well  as  a  part  of  his  own  pleasure,  to 
render  it  all  as  entertaining  as  he  can.  To  the  unvulgar  he  exclusively  ad- 
dresses himself;  but  he  begs  it  to  be  particularly  understood,  that  in  this 
description  of  persons  are  to  be  included  all  those,  who  without  having  had  a. 
classical  education,  would  have  turned  it  to  right  account  J  just  as  all  those; 
are  tabe  excluded,  who  in  spite  of  that  "  discipline  of  humanity"  thinlx 
ill  of  the  nature  which  they  degrade,  and  vulgarly  confound  the  vulgar  with; 
the  uneducated. '  j 

The  Indicator  wiU  attend  to  no  subject  whatsoever  of  immediate  or 
temporary  interest.  His  business  is  with  the  honey  in  the  old  woods.  The 
Editor  has  enough  to  agitate  his  spirits  during  the  present  eventful  times, 
in  another  periodical  work ',  and  he  is  willing  to  be  so  agitated  :  but  as  he 
is  accustomed  to  use  his  pen>  as  habitually  as  a  bird  his  pinion,  and  to  be- 
take himself  with  it  into  tlie  nests  and  bowers  of  more  lasting  speculations, 
when  he  has  done  with  public  ones,  he  is  determined  to  keep  those  haunts 
of  his  recreation  free  from  all  noise  and  wrangling,  both  for  his  own  pleasure 
and  for  those  who  may  chuse  to  accompany  him. 

^'^The  Indicator  wifl  appear  every  Wednesday  morning,  at  an  hour  early 
fettoughi  for  the  breakftist-table ;  aijd  though  the  subjects  will  not  be  tem- 
porary or  those  of  the  ttioment,  they  vdll  be  written  as  much  at  the 
moment  as  if  they  were/  so  tliat  there  will  still  be  a  certain  freshness  of 
intercourse  between  the  Editor  and  his  readers. 


123652 


2  THE  INDIOATOR. 

^  DiFFICULTV  OF  FINDING  A   NaME    FOR   A  WoRK   OF  THIS  KiND. ^NcVCr 

did  gossips,  when  assembled  to  determine  the  name  of  a  new-born  child, 
whose  family  was  full  of  conflicting  interests,  experience  half  the  difficulty 
which  an  author  finds  in  settling  the  title  for  a  periodical  work.  There  is 
generally  some  paramount  uncle,  or  prodigious  third  cousin,  who  is  silently 
understood  to  have  the  chief  claims,  and  to  the  golden  lustre  of  whose  face 
the  clouds  of  hesitation  and  jealousy  gradually  give  way.  But  these  chil- 
dren of  the  brain  have  no  godfather  ready  at  hand :  and  then  their  single 
appellation  is  bound  to  comprise  as  many  public  interests  as  all  the  Christ- 
ian names  of  a  French  or  a  German  prince.  It  is  to  be  modest :  it  is  to 
be  expressive :  it  is  to  be  new :  it  is  to  be  striking :  it  is  to  have  something  in 
it  equally  intelligible  to  a  man  of  plain  understanding,  and  surprising  for 
the  man  of  imagination : — in  one  word,  it  is  to  be  impossible.  How  far 
we  have  succeeded  in  the  attainment  of  this  happy  nonentity,  we  leave 
others  to  judge.  There  is  one  good  thing  however  which  the  hunt  after  a 
title  is  sure  to  realize; — a  good  deal  of  despairing  mirth.  We  were  visiting 
a  friend  the  other  night,  who  can  do  any  thing  for  a  book  but  give  it  a 
title;  and  after  many  grave  and  ineffectual  attempts  to  furnish  one  for  the 
present,  the  company,  after  the  fashion  of  Rabelais,  and  with  a  chair- 
shaking  merriment  which  he  might  have  joined  in  himself,  fell  to  turning 
a  hopeless  thing  into  a  jest.  It  was  like  that  exquisite  picture  of  a  set  of 
laughers  in  Shakspeare : — 

One  rubbed  his  elbow,  thus ;  and  fleered,  and  swore 
A  better  speech  was  never  spoke  before  : 
Another,  with  his  finger  and  his  thumb. 
Cried  "  Vial  We  will  do't,  come  what  will  come!" 
The  third  he  capered,  and  cried  "  All  goes  well!" 
The  fourth  turned  on  the  toe,  and  down  he  fell. 
"With  that  they  all  did  tumble  on  the  ground. 
With  such  a  zealous  laughter,  so  profound. 
That  in  this  spleen  ridiculous,  appears, 
To  check  their  laughter,  passion's  solemn  tears. 
I  Love's  Labour  Lost. 

jSome  of  the  names  had  a  meaning  in  their  absurdity,  such  as  the  Adviser, 
i>r  Helps  for  Composing} — the  Cheap  Reflector,  or  Eveij  Man  His  Own 
Liooking- Glass ; — the  Retailer,  or  Every  Man  His  Own  Other  Man's  Wit; 
— -Nonsense,  To  be  Continued.  Others  were  laughable  by  the  mere  force 
of  contrast,  as  the  Crocodile,  or  Pleasing  Companion; — Chaos,  or  the 
^Agreeable  Miscellany ; — the  Fugitive  Guide ; — the  Foot-Soldier,  or  Flowers 
of  Wit; — Bigotry,  or  the  Cheerful  Instructor; — the  Polite  Repositoiy  of 
Abuse; — Blood,  being  a  Collection  of  Light  Essays.  Others  were  sheer 
ludicrousness  and  extravagance,  as  the  Pleasing  Ancestor;  the  Silent  Re- 
marker;  the  Tart;  the  Leg  of  Beef  by  a  Layman;  the  Ingenious  Hat- 
band ;  the  Booths  of  Bliss ;  the  Occasional  Diner ;  the  Tooth-ache ;  Recol- 
lections of  a  Very  Unpleasant  Nature ;  Thoughts  on  Taking  up  a  Pair  of 
Snuffers ;  Thougljits  on  a  Barouche-Box ;  Thoughts  on  a  Hill  of  Considerable 
Eminence ;  Meditations  on  a  Pleasing  Idea ;  Materials  for  Drinking ;  the 
Knocker,  No.  I ; — the  Hippopotamus  Entered  at  Stationers'  Hall ;  the 
Piano-forte  of  Paulus  iEmilius ;  the  Seven  Sleepers  at  Cards ;  the  Arabian 
Nights  on  Horseback : — with  an  infinite  number  of  other  mortal  murders 
of  common  sense,  which  rose  to  '^  push  us  from  our  stools,"  and  which 
none  but  the  wise  or  good-natured  would  ever  think  of  laughing  at. 


THfi  INDICATOR.  3 

A  MiStak'e'"of' Mr.  Thomas  Paine' s  upon  Learning;  and  a  Word 
OR  Two  on  Translation. — We  speak  of  Mr.  Paine  as  a  deceased  author^ 
whom  it  is  a  vulgar  error  to  under-rate.     His  great  natural  powers  have 
forced  themselves  into  eminence  through  every  species  of  obstacle.     Well 
aware  of  them  himself,  seeing  in  what  manner  they  were  often  denied,  and 
what  a  convention  there  was  among  worldly  and  common-place  men,  pos- 
sessed of  a  little  scholarship,  to  cry  down  every  thing  but  themselves,  he 
ran  to  an  extreme  natural  enough  to  such  a  mind,  and  proclaimed  at  once 
that  all  which  is  commonly  understood  by  the  word  Learning  was  useless. 
He  saw  that  others  mistook  the  letter  for  the  spirit  5  and  yet  in  objecting 
to  this  mistake,  he  fell  into  one  of  the  very  same  nature,  and  asserted  that 
learning  was  no  longer  wanted,  because  all  the  "  useful  books"  in  the 
ancient  languages  had  been  translated.     By  useful  books,  he  means  such 
works  as  Euclid's  Elements :  and  here  again  he  fell  into  an  error,  from 
which  the  true  spirit  of  learning  might  have  saved  him :   he  confounded 
utility  with  mere  science.     He  forgot  that  for  one  instance  in  which  mere 
science  is  necessary  to  our  happiness,  there  are  a  hundred  in  which  we 
have  more  to  do  with  our  passions  and  tempers,  with  our  affections,  our 
perceptions,  with  our -ability  or  inability  to  extract  pleasure  from  the  in- 
numerable things  in  the  intellectual  and  external  world.     Utility  is  only 
utility  in  as  much  as  it  conduces  somehow  or  other  to  advantage  and 
pleasure.     Every  thing  that  is  truly  pleasurable  or  beautiful  is  as  useful 
as  the  most  scientific  thing  upon  earth.     Jane,  when  she  smiles  at  us,  or 
takes  a  country  walk  with  us,  or  reads  an  author  with  us,  is  at  least  as 
good  as  a  Spinning  Jenny.     If  we  have  twenty  pleasures  from  the  sight  of 
a  cherry,   such  as  the  admiration  of  it's  bloom,  it's  figure,  it's  scent,   it's 
suitableness  to  the  leaves,  it's  connexion  with  orchards  and  the  country, 
and  it's  association  with  aU  that  we  have  read  of  it  in  the  poets,  it  is  surely 
better  than  if  we  only  knew  the  taste  of  it,  and  could  reckon  how  much  a 
dozen  of  them  would  come  to  at  a  farthing  apiece.     If  we  see  nothing  in 
the  moon  but  a  light  for  old  gentlewomen  to  go  home  by,  or  a  satellite  to  the 
earth,   or  even  a  vague  beauty  and  serenity,  we  do  not  receive  so  much 
utility  from  it  as  when  we  recollect  that  it  is  the  very  same  moon  which 
Homer  has  so  often  looked  at  and  so  beautifully  described,— which  said 
beauty  of  description  is  not  to  be  found  in  the  translation  of  Pope.     Now 
there  is  scarcely  any  of  all  the  great  poets  in  other  languages,  of  whom  the 
English  reader  has  had  a  proper  account  from  translators.     An  individual 
may  have  so  much  in  him,  from  nature,  of  what  the  writers  on  the  side  of 
beauty  and  imagination  have  done  for  humanity,  that  he  may  want  little 
improvement  from  books.    And  we  all  could  go  on  without  learning.    We 
all  could  go  on  with  half,  or  a  quarter,  or  half  a  quarter  of  the  science 
that  is  now  in  the  world.  But  if  we  are  to  see  our  way  to  happiness  through 
knowledge   (and  we  cannot  well  return  to  it  now-a-davs  through  the 
paths  of  ignorance,  beset  as  they  have  been  with  every  species  of  tyranny) 
then  the  more  we  know  of  what  great  minds  have  felt  and  said,  the  more 
we  increase  the  general  stock  of  humanity  in  its  largest  sense.     That  aU 
the  "  useful  books"  therefore  have  been  translated,  must  be  denied.    Intel- 
ligent men  of  no  scholarship,  on  reading  Horace,  for  instance,  and  Ariosto, 
through  the  medium  of  translation,  have  often  wondered  how  those  writers 
obtained  their  glory.    And  they  well  might.    The  translations  are  no  more 
like  the  original  than  a  walking-stick  is  like  a  flowering  bough.     It  is  the 


4  THE  INDICATOR. 

^ame  with  the  versions  of  Euripides,  of  iEschylus,  of  Sophocles,  of  Theo- 
critus, of  Petrarch,  &c.  &c,  and  in  many  respects  of  Homer.  Perhaps  we 
could  not  give  the  reader  a  more  brief  yet  cpmplete  specimen  of  the  way 
in  which  bad  translations  are  made,  than  by  selecting  a  well-known  passage 
from  Shakspeare,  and  turning  it  into  the  common-place  kind  of  poetry 
that  flourished  so  widely  among  us  till  of  late  years.  Take  the  passage 
for  insj;ance,  where  the  lovers  in  the  Merchant  of  Venice  seat  themselves 
on  a  bank  by  moonlight : — 

How  sweet  the  moonlight  sleeps  upon  this  bank! 
Here  will  we  sit,  and  let  the  sounds  of  music 
Creep  in  our  ears ;  soft  stillness,  and  the  night, 
iiecome  the  touches  of  sweet  harmony. 

Now  a  foreign  translator,  of  the  ordinary  kind,  would  dilute  and  take 
all  taste  and  freshness  out  of  this  draught  of  poetry,  in  a  style  amounting 
to  the  following : — 

With  what  a  charm,  the  moon,  serene  and  bright. 
Lends  on  this  bank  its  soft  reflected  light! 
Sit  we,  I  pray;  and  let  us  sweetly  hear 
The  strains  melodious  with  a  raptured  ear ; 
For  soft  retreats,  and  night's  impressive  hour, 
To  harmony  impart  divinest  power. 

It  will  be  our  business,  where  a  quotation  from  the  foreign  poets  occurs  to 
us,  to  do  at  any  rate  a  little  better  than  this :  and  the  English  reader  will 
have  a  better  idea  of  the  love-stories  and  other  pieces  of  fiction  which  they 
have  rendered  so  celebrated,  in  abridgments  like  ours  of  the  utmost  brevity 
and  simplicity,  than  in  whole  volumes  of  this  kind  of  misrepresentation. 
The  simple  elements  of  them  will  be  laid  before  him  j  and  the  eye  of  his 
own  unobstructed  heart  will  see  more  of  what  the  poets  saw  in  them,  at 
once. 


Abaris,  a  mysterious  personage  in  the  time  of  Pythagoras.  He  is  said 
to  have  received  an  arrow  from  Apollo,  with  which  he  rode  through  the 
air,  and  which  he  afterwards  gave  to  Pythagoras  in  return  for  the  instruc-, 
tion  of  that  philosopher.  His  first  appearance  at  Athens  was  in  conse- 
quence of  a  pestilence  which  then  afflicted  the  world,  and  for  the  cessation 
of  which  an  oracle  had  enjoined  the  Athenians  to  pray  in  behalf  of  all  the 
other  nations.  Abaris  came  as  the  representative  of  the  Hyperboreans. 
The  probability  is,  that  he  was  a  Pythagorean  from  some  northern  coun- 
try, who  astonished  the  Athenians  by  the  rapidity  of  his  journies,  and  was 
not  sorry  perhaps  to  have  it  thought  supernatural.  A  metaphor  has  often 
been  enough  to  make  a  miracle.  He  rode  like  an  arrow.  Drop  the  word 
like,  and  the  miracle  is  ready.  Swift  says  of  the  famous  Lord  Peterbo- 
rough,— 

So  wonderful  his  expedition, 

When  you  have  not  the  least  suspicion 

He's  with  you  like  an  apparition. 

If  this  had  been  said  of  a  man  in  some  ages  of  the  world,  the  next  step 
would  have  been  to  use  his  apparition  at  once,  and  allow  him  a  travelling 
ghost. 


THE  INDICATOR.  S 

Abradates  and  Panthea,  a  singular  example  of  conjugal  affection  on  a 
throne.  Abradates  was  king  of  Susa  in  Persia  during  the  wars  between 
Cyrus  and  Artaxerxes ;  and  hearing  that  his  wife  Panthea,  who  had  gotten 
into  the  hands  of  the  former,  had  been  treated  by  him  with  singular  con- 
tinence and  respect,  Cyrus  having  denied  himself  even  the  temptation  of 
seeing  her,  he  went  over  to  that  prince  with  all  his  troops.  Unfortunately, 
he  was  slain  in  the  first  battle  that  he  fought  for  his  new  friend ;  and 
Panthea,  unable  to  bear  the  loss  of  so  noble  and  affectionate  a  spirit,  killed 
herself  on  his  dead  body.  The  story  was  first  told  by  Xenophon,  Besides 
it's  own  interest,  it  is  curious  as  one  of  the  few  specimens  afforded  by  the 
ancient  world,  of  chivakous  gallantry  towards  a  woman. 


Uriel  Acosta,  a  Portuguese  at  the  beginning  of  the  17th  century, 
presented  the  world  with  a  strange  instance  of  vacillation  in  religious  faith. 
He  first  turned  Jew,  converting  at  the  same  time  his  mother  and  brothers,, 
and  fled  with  them  to  Amsterdam,  where  they  were  received  into  a  syna- 
gogue. Becoming  dissatisfied  with  some  of  the  Jewish  rites,  and  giving  vent 
to  his  objections,  he  was  excommunicated  by  the  Jews.  He  then  wrote  a 
treatise  against  the  immortality  of  the  sOul,  for  which  he  was  seized  and 
fined.  After  a  lapse  of  fifteen  years,  he  made  his  submission,  and  was 
again  received ;  but  not  entirely  conforming  to  the  Mosaic  law,  and 
having  dissuaded  two  Christians  from  adopting  Judaism,  he  was  again 
expelled.  Under  this  second  sentence  he  remained  seven  years,  abandoned 
by  his  friends,  and  reduced  to  an  extremity  of  wretchedness.  At  last,  he 
again  prostrated  himself  before  the  Jewish  priests,  and  was  again  received 
after  an  extraordinary  penance,  during  which  the  most  melancholy  and  ap- 
palling ceremonies  were  gone  through,  candles  lighted  up  and  put  out,  and 
blood  dropped  into  basons.  We  speak  from  the  recollection  of  what 
we  have  read  3  but  the  proceeding  was  of  this  description.  At  the  conclu- 
sion of  these  infernal  ceremonies,  he  lay  down  upon  the  ground  at  the 
threshold  of  the  synagogue,  and  every  member  of  it  walked  over  his  body. 
He  shot  himself. — Acosta  has  been  idly  accused  of  impiety,  and  even 
of  worldly  selfishness.  A  man  is  not  full  of  religious  scruples  out  of  impiety ; 
much  less  keeps  out  of  the  pale  of  his  worldly  interest  over  and  over  again, 
and  for  so  many  years  together.  Perhaps  his  history  is  only  an  extraor- 
dinary instance  of  the  perplexity  arising  from  having  had  progenitors  of 
different  faiths.  Acosta's  father  was  a  Roman- Catholic,  but  descended 
from  a  Jewish  stock.  The  Catholics  would  naturally  wish  to  keep  him 
Catholic,  and  the  Jews  would  naturally  help  his  yearnings  after  Judaism. 
Perplexed  between  references  to  both,  his  mind  wavered ;  and  being  an 
inquiring  one,  took  to  thinking  for  itself;  but  this  was  what  neither 
Catholic  nor  Jew  would  tolerate.  Perplexed  by  early  prejudices  j  called 
upon,  as  it  were,  by  the  voices  of  his  ancestors  to  become  a  Jew  3  making 
bold  efforts  to  disengage  himself  from  this  cruel  alternative ;  then  plunged 
in  misery  3  and  above  all,  abandoned  by  men  calling  themselves  his  friends, 
and  whom  he  had  taken  for  such,  a  distracted  state  of  mind,  weakened  per- 
haps into  hopelessness  by  an  atrabilarious  temperament,  drove  him  back, 
like  a  frightened  animal^  into  the  toils  of  his  first  fear j  the  oldest  supersti- 


6  THE  INDICATOR. 

ition  in  tlie  family.  He  stared  about  him  a  while,  amidst  the  candles,  the 
curses,  and  the  dropping  blood ;  and  then  went  melancholy,  and  killed 
himself. -r— Thus  an  honest  man  is  driven  into  suicide,  because  his  ancestors 
differed  in  point  of  faith  I  The  religionist  will  say  that  this  shews  the  value 
of  having  one  regular  hereditary  faith ;  but  would  he  cease  then  to  convert 
the  heretic  to  his  own  ?  And  what  good  did  this  do  to  the  poor  unwilling 
martyr  Acosta?  The  philosopher  will  say  that  it  shews  the  wretched 
tyranny  of  custom. 


Polyphemus,  Acis,  and  Galatea,  one  of  the  most  celebrated  love-sto- 
ries in  ancient  fable.  Acis  was  a  mortal,  because  his  mother  was  so,  though 
his  father  was  the  wood-god  Faunus.  Galatea,  who  loved  him  deeply,  and 
whose  passion  was  returned,  was  an  immortal  sea-nymph,  the  daughter  of 
two  deities  of  the  ocean.  They  enjoyed  the  happiness  of  their  affection  in 
the  delightful  vales  of  Sicily ;  but  unfortunately  it  had  one  drawback^ 
which  was  the  jealous  importunity  of  Neptune's  gigantic  and  one-eyed  son, 
the  terrible  Polyphemus.  In  vain  the  enamoured  monster  implored  Galatea 
to  listen  to  him.  In  vain  had  love  softened  the  natural  ferocity  of  his 
manners,  so  that  he  would  sit  whole  days  on  the  sea-coast,  watching  to 
catch  a  glimpse  of  her  out  of  the  water,  while  the  tears  ran  down  his 
dreadful  face,  and  he  was  as  gentle  and  humble  as  a  child.  The  fair  nymph 
fled  but  the  more  for  refuge  into  the  ai'ms  of  the  handsome  shepherd.  The 
wretched  Polyphemus,  looking  down  one  day  into  a  valley,  saw  the  happy 
lovers  giving  way  to  their  transport ;  and  this  sight  made  the  load  of  his 
despair  intolerable.  He  rent  off  a  fragment  of  the  rock  on  which  he  was 
sitting  ;  and  hurling  it  down  as  Jupiter  might  do  his  thunder,  smote  his 
rival  so  as  to  crush  him  to  death.  Galatea,  inconsolable,  and  unable  to 
restore  her  lover  to  life,  dr  render  him  a  deity  like  herself,  turned  him  into 
a  fountain.  It  was  after  this  event  that  we  may  suppose  Polyphemus  to 
have  become  the  inhospitable  and  cruel  wretch  which  he  is  described 
to  be  in  Homer's  Odyssey :  and  this  point  of  view  helps  to  throw  an 
additional  interest  over  his  story,  which  always  appeared  to  us  one  of  the 
most  pathetic  and  deeply-meaning  in  poetry.  He  was  separated  by  his 
monstrous  appearance  from  human  kind,  and  yet  in  his  heart  and  inclina- 
tions he  sympathized  with  them.  The  want  of  this  sympathy  from  others 
made  him  ireful,  revengeful,  impious.  What  moral  can  go  to  the  heart  of 
things  more  deeply  than  this  ? 

This  story  has  been  a  great  favourite  with  all  men  of  genius.  It  has 
been  touched  upon  with  great  pathos  and  simplicity  by  Theocritus,  who 
was  followed  not  so  well  by  Virgil,  and  with  much  less  nature  by  Ovid. 
The  Italian  writers  are  so  fond  of  it,  that  they  have  sonnets,  called 
Polyphemic  sonnets.  Raphael  painted  a  beautiful  picture  of  Galatea 
triumphing  on  the  waters,  of  which  there  are  many  engravings.  And 
Handel  finished  the  homage  of  the  arts  to  it  by  that  divine  oratoi'io  of  Acis 
and  Galatea,  for  which  Gay  contributed  words  not  unworthy.  If  the  reader 
wishes  to  know  how  the  great  poets  have  written  on  the  subject,  he  should 
hear  how  Handel  composed. 


THE  INDICATOR.  7 

Country  Houses  near  Town. — We  have  often  wondered,  in  the  midst 
of  the  trees  and  fields,  how  people  can  be  aware  of  the  existence  of  such 
beautiful  things,  and  not  long  to  enjoy  them  : — we  mean,  of  course,  in  the 
manner  as  well  as  the  degree,  in  whick  some  others  enjoy  them :  for 
though  Nature  will  be  felt  and  acknowledged  some  how  or  other  under  all 
her  aspects,  and  though  the  inhabitants  of  the  metropolis  have  plenty  of 
little  country  houses  scattered  about  the  skirts  of  it,  yet  their  pleasure  in 
them  is  rather  of  a  negative  than  positive  kind ;  rather  a  fidgeting  respite 
from  smoke  and  noise,  than  a  sense  of  the  beauties  of  scenery  or  of  the 
solitude.  When  the  citizen  gets  out  of  the  town,  he  contrives  to  be  almost 
as  much  confined  as  when  he  is  in  it.  At  the  best,  he  generally  pokes 
about  his  garden  a  little,  and  sees  that  the  apple  trees  are  productive,  and 
the  brick  walls  secure.  If  he  goes  out,  it  is  chiefly  when  his  neighbours 
are  abroad  to  meet  him,  and  along  the  high-road.  He  may  cross  the  fields 
in  the  morning  to  church,  in  order  to  take  care  of  his  eternal  interests  upon 
the. same  principle  on  which  he  takes  care  of  his  temporal  every  other  day 
in  the  week ;  but  he  confines  himself  to  the  path  as  he,  goes ;  he  returns  by 
it  as  ploddingly ;  and  though  not  so  bad  as  the  sourer' bigot,  who  after  in- 
sisting all  the  morning  at  the  meeting  house  that  the  world  is  a  vile  world> 
takes  all  the  selfish  or  unsocial  means  he  can  to  prove  his  words,  he  spends 
the  rest  of  the  day  with  almost  as  little  sense  of  the  beauties  and  kindliness 
of  creation,  either  eating  and  drinking  himself  to  sleep  in  his  easy  chair,  or 
treating  some  friends  with  the  provisions  he  stuffed  his  carriage  with. the 
day  before,  and  ctdtivating  a  hot-faced,  noisy,  and  boozing  indigestion  till 
bed-time.  This,  and  a  confinement  all  the  rest  of  the  week  to  close  and 
noisy  streets, — the  transition  from  dark  rooms  with  windows  half  dust  and 
half  boai'd,  to  the  bargaining  uproar  of  an  Exchange, — the  total  ignorance 
of  all  intellectual  pleasures,  an  utter  deadness  to  what  is  called  sentiment, 
— a  person  which  has  no  graces  in  consequence, — a  face,  sometimes  jovial 
but  not  happy,  generally  care-worn,  and  always  vulgar, — an  enjoyment, 
such  as  it  is,  allied  to  gambling,  and  cut  with  a  thousand  anxieties, — an 
unhealthy  temperament,  always  contradicting  his  comfort  also,  though  he 
may  not  know  as  much, — toil,  toil,  toil,  every  morning, — indigestion, 
indigestion,  every  evening, — a  gout  in  his  old  age,  and  a  bad  conscience  all 
his  life, — such  is  the  picture  of  a  complete,  successful,  flourishing,  sophis- 
ticated, money-getting  animal;  who  is  called  "a  good  man,"  because  his 
knaveries  enable  him  to  pay ;  and  a  knowing  one,  because  he  has  found 
out  with  infinite  labour  and  pains  how  to  make  himself  forty  times  as  un- 
comfortable as  other  people. 

All  this  comes  from  imaginary  wants,  and  from  abandoning  nature  in 
order  to  get  as  much  as  possible  out  of  art ;  whereas  art  with  twenty  times 
the  toil  will  never  yield  a  twentieth  part  of  the  real  harvest.  A  third  of 
the  industry  that  is  now  thought  necessary,  and  an  improved  knowledge 
which  does  not  confound  good  taste  with  expensiveness,  would  leave  man- 
kind to  the  enjoyment  of  a  leisure  and  a  happiness,  which  they  have  only 
tasted  at  intervals.  But  in  the  mean  time,  instead  of  happiness  being 
attended-  to,  the  phrase  is,  that  "  business  must  be  attended  to."  The 
same  pains,  or  mere  profligacies,  are  bequeathed  to  children ;  and  with  the 
exception  of  a  few  understandings  who  have  survived  the  convulsions  of 
the  times,  and  have  got  hold  of  a  weapon  against  erroi",  which  wisdom  never 
had  before,  and  which  we  trust  it  will  never  let  go — the  middle  classes  in 
this  green  and  beautiful  country,  make  a  religion  of  their  money-getting 


B  THE  INDICATOR. 

and  town  habits,  sitting  in  their  Well-clothed  stupidity,  and  sneering  with 
as  much  ignorant  scepticism  at  all  improvement,  as  ever  their  ancestroa 
might  have  done  in  their  painted  skins. 

The  present  generation,  in  this  respect,  is  too  old  and  too  foolish  to 
mend  j  but  the  rising  one  has  new  light ;  and  how  easily  might  it  see,  not 
only  from  the  sophistications  of  it's  parents,  but  from  their  sufferings  and 
even  their  little  unconscious  hankerings  after  something  better,  the  policy 
of  improving  it's  habits  of  thinking  I  How  much  better  would  it  be  to 
have  a  third  of  the  toil,  and  a  twentieth  part  of  the  anxiety  !  How  much 
better  to  have  air  and  exercise  every  day,  instead  of  once  a  week  !  How 
much  better  to  have  cheap  luxuries,  easy  digestions,  cool  slumbers,  and 
quiet  minds ! 

Nor  is  this  mere  talking,  or  a  thing  only  to  be  found  in  books  j  as  if 
there  were  no  medium  between  the  extreme  of  folly  and  that  of  injustice. 
Let  them  come  out  in  the  fields,  and  see.  Let  them  read  of  the  smaller 
country  gentlemen,  a  class  which  has  since  vanished, — of  archeries  and 
other  rural  sports,  of  the  old  mixture  of  business  and  pleasure,  which  were 
in  a  more  rejisonable  proportion  than  now  j  and  let  them  add  to  these,  the 
improvements  which  philosophy  would  now  enable  them  to  make  in  a 
thousand  matters  involving  the  common  good  j  and  they  would  soon  see 
the  folly  of  wasting  their  time  by  a  mistaken  sense  of  it. 

Upon  this  subject  we  shall  present  our  readers  by  and  by  with  a  stoi-y 
of  a  man  who  never  went  out  of  the  metropolis  for  ten  years,  and  what 
took  him  out  of  it  at  last. 


ANACREON'S  PORTRAIT  OF  HIS  MISTRESS. 

Ay£,  (^w'/pa,(puv  »ptss- 

Come,  master  of  the  rosy  art.  Fetch  her  eyesight  out  of  fire  j 

Thou  painter  after  my  own  heart.  Like  Minerva's,  sparkling  blue  j 

Com6,  paint  my  absent  love  for  me.  Moist,  like  Cytherea's  too; 

As  I  shall  describe  her  thee.  Give  her  nose  and  cheeks  a  tint 

Paint  me  first  her  fine  dark  hair.  Like  shallow^  milk  with  roses  in't: 

Fawning  into  ringlets  there;  Let  her  lip  Persuasion's  be. 

And  if  brush  has  power  to  do  it,  Asking  our's  provokingly : 

Paint  the  odour  breathing  through  it.  And  beneath  her  satin  chin. 

Then  from  out  her  ripe  young  cheek.  With  a  dimple  broken  in, 

Underneath  those  tresses  sleek.  And  all  about  those  precious  places, 

Paint  her  brow  of  ivory ;  Set  a  thousand  hovering  graces. 

Taking  care  the  eyebrows  be  Now  then, — let  the  drapery  spread. 

Not  apart,  nor  mingled  neither.  With  an  under  tint  of  red. 

But  as  her's  are,  stol'n  together ;  And  a  glimpse  left  scarcely  drest. 

Met  by  stealth,  yet  leaving  too  So  that  what  remains  be  guess'd^ 

O'er  the  eyes  their  darkest  hue.  'Tis  enough:  'tis  she!  'tis  she! 

Then  as  those  bright  orbs  require,  O  thou  sweet  face,  speak  to  ide. 


Orders  received  by  the  Newsmen,  Booksellers,  and  by  the  Publisher,  Joseph  Appl^ard, 

No.  19,  Catherine-street,  Strand.^Price  Two-pence. 

Printed  by  C.  H.  Reyjiel],  No,  45,  Broad-street,  Golden-square,  London. 


THE    INDICATOR. 

There  is  a  bird  in  the  interiov  of  Africa,  whose  habits  would  rather  seem  to  belong  to  the  interior 
"Of  Fairy-land :  but  they  have  been  well  authenticated.    It  indicates  to  honey  hunters  where  the  nests 
«i  wild  bees  are  to  be  founds  It  calls  tliei'n  With  a  cheerful  cry,  which  they  answer;  and  on  finding  itself 
i'ecognized,  flies  and  hovers  over  a  hullow  tree  containing  the  honey.    While  they  are  occupied ;in 
collecting  it,  the  bird  goes  to  a  little  distance,  where  he  observes  all  that  passes ;  and  the  hunters. 
When  they  have  helped  themselves,  take  care  to  leave  him  his  portion  of  the  food.— This  is  the 
CucuLus  Indicator  of  Linnseus,  otherwise  called  the  Moroc,  Bee  Cuckoo,  or  Honey  Bird. 
There  he  arriving  round  about  doth  flie. 
And  takes  survey  with  busie,  curious  eye  :''• 
Mow  this,  now  that,  he  tasteth  tenderly.— Spensek. 


No.  II.— WEDNESDAY,  OCTOBER  20th,  1819. 


THE  INDICATOR   AND    EXAMINER.— AUTUMNAL  COMMENCEMENT 
OF  FIRES.— MANTLE-PIECES.— APARTMENTS  FOR  STUDY. 

One  or  two  persons,  we  understand,  have  supposed  that  the  present 
periodical  work  will  interfere  with  the  literary  part  of  another,  in 
which  the  Editor  has  long  been  concerned.  This  is  a  great  mistake. 
The  Examiner  will  continue  to  be-  more  literary,  as  well  as  pains- 
taking in  every  other  respect,  than  it  has  ever  been.  It  will  have 
more  than  the  usual  literature,  for  instance,  connected  with  politics 
and  criticism, — especially  the  latter.  Indeed,  should  the  new  paper 
injure  the  old  one,  it  would  be  dropped.  The  fact  is,  that  as  far  as 
the  Editor  ^is  concerned,  the  Examiner  is  to  be  regarded  as  the 
reflection  of  his  public  litei-ature,  and  the  Indicator  of  his  private. 
In  the  one  he  has  a  sort  of  public  meeting  with  his  friends :  in  the 
other,  a  more  retired  one.  The  Examiner  is  his  tavern-room  for 
politics,  for  political  pleasantry,  for  criticism  upon  the  theatres  and. 
living  writers.  The  Indicator  is  his  private  room,  his  study,  his 
retreat  from  public  care  and  criticism,  with  the  reader  who  chuses 
to  accompany  him. 

Here  we  are  then,  this  chilly  weather,  with  a  warm  fire.  How 
pleasant  it  is  to  have  fires  again !  We  have  not  time  to  regret  -sum- 
mer, when  the  cold  fogs  begin  to  force  us  upon  the  necessity  of  having 
anew  kind  of  warmth; — a  warmth  not  so  fine  as  sunshine,  but  as 
manners  go,  more  sociable.  The  English  get  together  over  their 
fires,  as  the  Italians  do  in  their  summer-shade.  We  do  not  enjoy  our 
sunshine  as  we  ought:  our  climate  in  general  seems  to  render  us 
almost  unaware  that  the  weather  is  fine,  when  it  really  becomes  so : 
but  for  the  same  reason,  we  make  as  much  of  our  winter  as  the  anti- 
social habits  that  have  grown  upon  us  from  other  causes  will  allow. 
And  for  a  similar  reason,  the  southern  European  is  unprepared  for  a 
cold  day.  The  houses  in  Italy  are  almost  all  summer-houses,  letting 
in  the  air  on  every  side  j  so  that  when  a  fit  of  cold  weather  comes 
oaj  the  dismayed  inhabitant,  walking  and  shivering  about  with  a 


10  THE  INDICATOR. 

little  brazier  in  his  hands,  presents  an  awkward  image  of  insuffi- 
ciency and  perplexity.  A  few  of  our  fogs,  shutting  up  the  sight  of 
every  thing  out  of  doors,  and  making  the  trees  and  the  eves  of  the 
houses  drip  like  rain,  would  soon  admonish  him  to  get  warm  in  good 
earnest.  If  "  the  web  of  our  life"  is  always  to  be  '*  of  a  mingled 
yarn,"  a  good  warm  hearth-rug  is  not  the  worst  part  of  the  manu- 
facture. 

Here  we  are  then  again,  with  our  fire  .before  us,  and  our  books  on 
each  side.  What  shall  we  do  ?  Shall  we  take  out  a  Life  of  somebody, 
or  a  Theocritus,  or  Dante,  or  Ariosto,  or  Montaigne,  or  Marcus  Aure- 
lius,  or  Horace,  or  Shakspeare  who  includes  them  all  ?  Or  shall  we 
read  an  engraving  from  Poussin  or  Raphael  ?  Or  shall  we  sit  with 
tilted  chairs,  planting  our  wrists  upon  our  knees,  and  toasting  the 
up-turned  palms  of  our  hands,  while  we  discourse  of  manners  and  of 
mans  heart  and  hopes,  with  at  least  a  sincerity,  a  good  intention,'  and 
good  nature,  that  shall  warrant  what  we  say  with  the  sincere,  the 
good-intentioned,  and  the  good-natured  ? 

Ah — ^take  care.  You  see  what  that  old  looking  saucer  is,  with 
a  handle  to  it.  It  is  a  venerable  piece  of  earthenware,  which  may 
have  been  worth,  to  an  Athenian,  about  two-pence ;  but  to  an  author, 
is  worth  a  great  deal  more  than  ever  he  could — deny  for  it.  And 
yet  he  woiild  depy  it  too.  It  will  fetch  his  imagination  more  than 
ever  it  fetched  potter  or  penny-maker.  It's  little  shallow  circle 
overflows  for  him  with  the  milk  and  honey  of  a  thousand  pleasant 
associations.  This  is  one  of  the  uses  of  having  mantle-pieces.  You 
may  often  see  on  no  very  rich  mantle-piece  a  representative  body  of 
all  the  elements,  physical  and  intellectual,— a  shell  for  the  sea,  a 
stuffed  bird  or  some  feathers  for  the  air,  a  curious  piece  of  mineral 
for  the  earth,  a  glass  of  water  with  some  flowers  in  it  for  the  visible 
process  of  creation, — a  cast  from  sculpture  for  the  mind  of  man  j— 
and  underneath  all,  is  the  bright  and  ever-springing  fire,  running 
up  through  them  heavenwards,  like  hope  through  materiality.  We 
like  to  have  any  little  curiosity  of  the  mantle-piece  kind  within  our 
reach  and  inspection.  For  the  same  reason,  we  like  a  sniall  study, 
where  we  are  almost  in  contact  with  our  books.  We  like  to  feel 
them  about  us, — to  be  in  the  arms  of  our  mistress  Philosophy,  rather 
than  see  her  at  a  distance.  To  have  a  huge  apartment  for  a  study 
is  like  lying  in  the  great  bed  at  Ware,  or  being  snug  on  a  mile- 
stone upon  Hounslow  Heath.  It  is  space  and  physical  activity,  not 
repose  and  concentration.  It  is  fit  only  for  grandeur  and  ostentation, 
— for  those  who  have  secretaries,  and  are  to  be  approached  like  gods 
in  a  temple.  The  archbishop  of  Toledo,  no  doubt,  wrote  his  homilies 
in  a  room  ninety  feet  long.  The  Marquis  Marialva  must  have  been 
approached  by  GU  Bias  through  whole  ranks  of  glittering  authors, 
standing  at  due  distance.  But  Ariosto,  whose  mind  could  fly  out  of 
it's  nest  over  all  nature,  wrote  over  the  house  he  built,  "  Parva,  sed 
apta  mihi" — Small,  but  suited  to  me.  However,  it  is  to  be  observed, 
that  he  could  not  afford  a  larger.  He  w^s  a  Duodenarian,  in  that 
respect,  like  ourselves.     We  do  not  know  how  our  ideas  of  a  study 


THE  INDTCATOU.  H 

might  exparid  With  our  walls.  Montaigne,  who  was  Montaigne 
"  of  that  ilk/'  and  lord  of  a  great  chateau,  had  a  study  "  sixteen 
paces  in  diametei^  with  three  noble  and  free  prospects."  He  con- 
gratulates himself,  at  the  same  time,  on  it's  circular  figure,  evidently 
from  a  feeling  allied  to  the  one  in  favour  of  smallness.  "  The  figure 
of  my  study,"  says  he,  ''  is  round,  and  has  no  more  flat  (bare) 
wall,  than  what  is  taken  up  by  my  table  and  my  chairs ;  so  that  the 
remaining  parts  of  the  circle  present  me  with  a  view  of  all  my  books  at 
once,  set  upon  five  degrees  of  shelves  round  about  me."  (Cotton's  Mon- 
taigne. B.3.  Ch.  3.)  A  great  prospect  we  hold  to  be  a  very  disputa- 
ble advantage,  upon  the  same  reasoning  as  before ;  but  we  like  to  have 
some  green  boughs  about  our  windows,  and  to  fancy  ourselves  as 
much  as  possible  in  the  country  when  we  are  not  there.  Milton 
expressed  a  wish  with  regard  to  his  study,  extremely  suitable  to  our 
present  purpose.  He  would  have  the  lamp  in  it  seen;  thus  letting 
others  into  a  share  of  his  enjoyments,  by  the  imagination  of  them. 

And  let  my  lamp  at  midniglit  hour 
Be  seen  in  sonie  high  lonely  tower. 
Where  I  may  oft  outwatch  the  Bear 
With  thrice-great  Hermes  ;  or  unsphere 
The  Spirit  of  Plato,  to  unfold 
What  world  or  what  vast  regions  hold 
The  immortal  mind,  that  hath  forsook 
Her  mansion  in  this  fleshy  nook. 

There  is  a  fine  passionate  burst  of  enthusiasm  oh  the  subject  of  a 
study  in  Fletcher's  play  of  the  Elder  Brother,  Act.  1.  Scene  2. 

Sordid  and  dunghill  minds,  composed  of  earth, 

In  that  gross  element  fix  all  their  happines^  : 

But  purer  spirits,  purged  and  refined. 

Shake  off  that  clog  of  human  frailty.    Give  mfe 

Leave  to  enjoy  myself.    That  place,  that  does 

Contain  my  books,  the  best  companions,  is 

To  me  a  glorious  court,  where  hourly  I 

Converse  with  the  old  sages  and  philosophers ; 

And  sometimes  for  variety,  I  confer 

With  kings  and  emperors,  and  weigh  their  counsels; 

Calling  their  victories,  if  unjustly  got. 

Unto  a  strict  account ;  and  in  my  fancy. 

Deface  their  ill-plaeed  statues.     Can  I  then 

Part  with  such  constant  pleasures,  to  embrace 

Uncertain  vanities  ?     No  :  be  it  your  care 

To  augment  a  heap  of  wealth :  it  shall  be  mine 

To  increase  in  knowledge.    Lights  there  for  my  study  I 


ACONTIUS  AND   CYDIPPE, 

A   LOVE   STORY   IN   THE   ANTIENT  WRITERS, 

Acontius  was  a  youth  of  the  island  Cea  (now  Zia),  who  at  the 
•sacrifices  in  honour  of  Diana  fell  in  love  with  this  beautiful  virgin, 
Cydippej  but  she  was  unfortunately  so  much  above  him  in  rank, 
that  he  had  no  hope  of  obtaining  her  hand  in  the  usual  way     The 


12  .        THE  INDICATOR. 

wit  of  a  lover  accordingly  helped  him  to  an  expedient.    There  wm 
a  law  in  Cea,  that  any  oath  pronounced  in  the  temple  of  Diana^  was 
irrevocably  binding.     Acontius  got  an  apple,  and  writing  some  words 
upon  itj  pitched  it  into  Cydippe's  bosom. 
The  words  were  these  5 — 

MA  THN  APTEMIN  AKONTIfi  TAMOYMAI. 
By  Dian,  I  will  marry  Acontius. 

Or  as  a  poet  has  written  them  : 

,  '  Juro  tibi  sanctae  per  mystica  sacra  Dianse, 

Me  tibi  venturam  comitem,  sponsamque  futuram. 

I  swear  by  holy  Dian,  I  will  be  ^ 

Thy  bride  betrothed,  and  bear  thee  company. 

Cydippe  readj  and  married  herself. — ^It  is  said  that  she  was  repeat- 
edly on  -the  eve  of  being  married  to  another  person  ;  but  her  imagin- 
ation in  the  shape  of  the  Goddess  as  often  threw  her  into  a  fever  j 
and  the  lover,  whose  ardour  and  ingenuity  had  made  an  impression 
upon  her,  was  made  happy.  Aristaenetus  in  his  Epistles  calls  the 
apple  itv^coviov  (AviXov,  a  Cretan  apple,  which  is  supposed  to  mean  a  quince : 
or  as  others  think,  an  orange,  or  a  citron.  But  the  apple  was,  is, 
and  must  be,  a  true,  unsophisticated  apple.  Nothing  else  would 
have  suited.  "  The  apples,  methought,"  says  Sir  Philip  Sydney,  of 
his  heroine  in  the  Arcadia,  "  fell  down  from  the  trees,  to  do  homage 
to  the  apples  of  her  breast.-'  The  idea  seems  to  have  originated  with 
Theocritus,  (Idyl.  27-  v.  50.  Edit.  Valckenaer.)  from  whom  it  was 
copied  by  the  Italian  writers.  It  makes  a  lovely  figure  in  one  of  the 
most  famous  passages  of  .Ariosto,  where  he  describes  the  beauty  of 
Alcina  (Orlando  Furioso,  Canto  7-  st.  14.) : — 

Bianca  neve  e  il  bel  coUo,  e'l  petto  latte: 
II  collo  e  tondo,  il  petto  colmo  e  largo : 
Due  pome  acejbe,  e  pur  d'avorio  fatte, 
Vengono  e  van  come  onda  al  primo  margo, 
Quando  piacevole  aura  il  mar  combatte. 

Her  bosom  is  like  milk,  her  neck  like  snow ; 

A  rounded  neck  ;  a  bosom,  where  you  see 

Two  crisp  young  ivory  apples  come  and  go. 

Like  waves,  that  on  the  coast  beat  tenderly, 

When  a  sweet  air  is  ruffling  to  and  fro.  _/ 

And  after  him,  Tasso,  in  his  fine  ode  on  the  Golden  Age : — 

Allor  tra  fiori  e  linfe 

Tracan  dolci  carol  e 

Gli  Amoretti  senz '  archi  e  senza  faci : 

l^edean  pas  tori  e  ninfe 

Meschiando  a  le  parole 

Vezzi  e  susurri,  ed  ai  susurri  i  baci 

Strettamente  tenaci. 

La  verginella  ignude 

Scopria  sue  fresche  rose 

Ch'or  tien  nel  velo  ascose, 

E  le  pome  del  seno  acerbe  e  crude: 

E  sperso  o  in  fiume  o  in  lago 

Scherzar  si  vide  con  Tamata  il  vago.  ' 


THE  INDICATOR.  IS 

Then  among  streams  and  flowers. 

The  little  Winged  Povrers 

Went  singing  carols,  without  torch  or  bow ;  ^ 

The  nymphs  and  shepherds  sat 

Mingling  with  innocent  chat 

Sports  and  low  whispers,  and  with  whispers  low 

Kisses  that  would  not  go. 

The  maiden,  budding  oe'r. 

Kept  not  her  bloom  uneyed, 

Which  now  a  veil  must  hide, 

Nor  the  crisp  apples  which  her  bosom  bore: 

And  oftentimes  in  river  or  in  lake. 

The  lover  and  his  love  their  merry  bath  would  take. 

Honi  soit  qui  mal  y  pense. 


VENICE. 

This  is  the  country  of  Titian,  of  Palladio,  of  Marcello,  who  from 
a  nobleman  became  one  of  the  finest  musicians  in  Italy  ;  of  Bembo, 
one  of  the  most  liberal  and  accomplished  of  cardinals  ;  of  Paul  Sarpi, 
who  kept  his  countrymen  independent  of  the  church  cf  Rome. 

The  Venetians  are  like  a  lively  family  cut  oflf  from  the  rest  of 
Europe,  Let  the  reader  imagine  himself  pushing  off  from  a  sea-coast, 
and  coming  at  a  distance  of  a  league  and  a  half  upon  a  city  standing  in 
the  sea.  This  is  Venice.  It  is  built  upon  seventy-two  little  islands, 
the  houses  abutting  directly  upon  the  water,  the  finest  of  them  with- 
out even  a  landing  place  but  the  stairs ;  so  that  instead  of  streets 
there  are  only  canals  of  sea- water ;  and  instead  of  coaches  and  carts, 
gondolas  and  other  boats.  Perhaps  the  best  idea  the  reader  can 
have  of  a  Venetian  street  is  to  imagine  a  street  like  Portland-place, 
or  rather  a  more  winding  one  like  the  High-street  at  Oxford,  mixed 
with  nobler  as  well  as  smaller  houses,  and  the  full  sea  running  through 
it,  with  abundance  of  boats  of  traffic  and  swift-darting  gondolas. 
The  gondola  is  a  sort  of  wherry,  about  five  feet  broad,  and  twenty- 
five  long,  covered  with  black  cloth,  and  having  a  cabin  standing  up  _ 
in  the  middle  of  it,  like  the  body  of  a  caravan.  The  cabin  is  covered  with 
black  also,  and  has  moveable  windows  with  curtains  AVenetian  gentle- 
keeps  his  gondola  as  an  Englishman  does  his  coach  j  only  with  much 
greater  cheapness.  The  full  complement  of  a  gondola  is  two  rowers, 
who  stand  to  their  oars,  one  at  each  end,  and  with  their  faces  the 
reverse  way  of  our  boatmen.  They^^re  very  expert,  and  dart  their 
gondolas  in  and  out  among  the  intricacies  of  this  watery  bustle,  like 
fish.  They  are  proverbial  for  their  cheerfulness  and  honesty.  They 
used  to  be  famous  for  singing  passages  out  of  Tasso  and  other  Italian 
poets ;  but  political  trouble  has  dashed  the  spirits  even  of  the  Vene- 
tian gondolier,  and  he  is  now  comparatively  mute.*     The  guitar 

*  It  is  curious  and  natural  enough,  that  one  of  their  most  favourite  passages 
was  the  beginning  of  the  seventh  book  of  the  Jerusalem  Delivered,  where  Errainia 
gets  among  the  country-people.  They  sang  to  a  kind  of  chant,  sometimes 
responding  to  each  other ;  and  the  aflfect  at  night-time,  when  the  sound  came 
.softened  by  distance  over  the  water,   was  often  delightful.    Rousseau,  who  was 


14  THE  INDICATOR. 

however  is  still  heard  in  Venice,  especially  of  an  evening ;  and  the 
visitor  continually  hears  those  delightful  dancing  airs  which  have 
been  collected  and  published  in  this  country.  The  chief,  or  rather 
the  only  place  of  assemblage  for  tHe  inhabitants  of  Venice  out  of 
doors  (for  they  have  a  fine  opera  and  multitudes  of  opera-houses 
within)  is  a  large  square,  containing  the  principal  church  and  the 
government  offices.  Here  all  ranks  are  accustomed  to  meet  of  an 
evening  J  and  here  something  of  amusement  is  generally  going  for- 
ward all  day,  from  the  guitar-player  to  the  punchinelio.  There  is 
very  little  more  standing-room  throughout  the  city;  and  so  little 
vegetation,  that  they  call  a  court  by  way  of  eminence  the  Court  of 
the  Tree,  and  there  is  a  church  entitled  our  Lady  of  the  Garden. 
There  is  a  monastery  with  one  of  these  gardens,  such  as  they  are ; 
the  Palace  Zenobio  has  another,  and  a  Casino,*  called  Zai^ne,  another. 
We  suppose  they  muster  up  some  others  in  miniature;  but  there 
is  an  island  near  Venice,  where  the  gentry  have  country-houses,  and 
contrive  to  be  a  little  more  horticultural. 

Next  to  it's  watery  streets,  Venice  is  remarkable  for  the  number 
of  it's  bridges  and  palaces.  The  latter  are  truly  so  called,  and  com- 
prise many  of  the  master-pieces  of  Palladio.  Every  noble  family  ap- 
pears to  have  once  occupied  a  palace,  some  of  them  many  palaces. 
They  stand  upon  the  principal  canals,  into  which  run  smaller  ones, 
all  of  them  having  their  bridges.  These  bridges  however  are  in 
general  very  small ;  nor  is  the  famous  one,  called  the  Rialto,  so  re- 
markable as  it's  celebrity  would  imply,  though  it  is  built  in  a  strik- 
ing manner,  of  one  arch.  It  has  houses  on  it,  like  old  London  bridge, 
though  not  after  the  same  fashion.  They  cross  it  in  a  covered  angle, 
forming  a  double  arcade.  The  artist  who  built  it  was  called  Anto- 
nio of  the  Bridge.  In  the  same  spirit  of  poetical  tendency,  the  bridge 
leading  to  the  city  jail  is  called  the  Bridge  of  Sighs ;  and  one  of  the 
principal  canals,  probably  from  the  residence  of  some  great  musician, 
is  entitled  the  River  of  Song.      ,, 

The  Venetians  have  always  been  famous  for  their  enjoying  temper, 
and  what  the  Italians  call  Brio, — a  certain  sparkling  of  the  animal 
spirits.  A  quintessence  of  this  quality  would  seem  to  have  been  al- 
most the  only  thing  which  made  a  late  celebrated  dramatist,  Goldoni, 
be  taken  all  over  Europe  for  a  great  genius.  Yet  the  Venetian  cha- 
racter in  general  is  relieved  from  the  frivolous  by  an  evident  capacity 

ouce  at  Venice,  published  the  chant  in  notes.  We  do  not  remember  whether  it  is 
from  him  that  Mr.  Shield  has  copied  it  in  the  appendix  to  his  Introduction  to  Har- 
mony ;  but  it  is  there  to  be  found.  Ariosto  used  to  be  the  great  favourite  with 
the  Venetians;  but  Tasso's  poem  seems  to  have  superseded  even  the  Orlando  in 
popularity.  An  Italian  gentleman,  when  asked  his  opinion  of  this  mystery, 
thought  it  explained  by  the  great  mixture  of  Turkish  affairs  in  the  Jerusalem, 
the  Venetians  having  had  a  good  deal  to  do  with  the  Turks,  both  as  enemies  and 
friends. 

*  Baretti  defines  one  of  these  Casinos  exactly.   He  calls  it  "  a  small  house  kept 
for  pleasure  in  a  town,  besides  our  own."    They  are  in  great  request  at  Venice ; 
more  so  now,  we  suppose  than  ever,  since  the  nobility  have  shrunk  in  their  pa-  • 
laces  like  withered  nuts.    ,  •  . 


THE  INDICATOR.  15 

for  the  serious.  The  wine  in  their  blood  has  a  body  with  it.  There 
is  a  tone  and  substance  in  their  composition  as  different  from  the  old 
French  levity,  as  Titian's  pictures  are  from  La  Guerre.  You  still 
meet  with  Titian's  men  and  women  at  Venice, — the  same  rich  dark 
complexions  and  fine  figures  j  the  same  faces,  earnest  without  sharp- 
ness, quick  without  confusion,  thoughtful  without  severity,  volup- 
tuous without  grossness.  The  men  are  lobiist  as  well  as  agile  :  the 
women  have  that  sort  of  tone  in  their  composition  which  made  the 
very  courtezan  of  Venice  a  Calypso  to  strangers,  and  enthroned  the 
more  sentimental  mistress  at  the  top  of  her  sex,  at  once  to  fascinate 
and  to  rule. 

The  leading  men  in  the  state,  the  counsellors  at  law,  &c.  take  ad- 
vantage of  this  solid  part  of  the  national  character  to  affect  a  prodi- 
gious air  of  gravity  :  and  it  was  perhaps  fi^om  a  mixed  spirit  of  re- 
publican pride,  and  a  sort  of  gusto  of  contrast  to  the  pleasurability 
of  their  temperament,  that  black  colours  became  the  national  wear. 
Not  only  the  divines  and  lawyers  wore  black,  but  the  statesmen  wore 
black,  the  ladies  all  wore  black ;  and  the  gondolas,  carrying  guitars 
and  lovers  in  their  bosoms,  were  clothed  in  the  same  external  symbol 
of  solemnity.  We  believe  it  is  the  same  to  this  day,  if  not  so  uni-' 
versally.  There  seems  in  this  a  kind  of  pleasant  and  avowed  hypo- 
crisy, which  stands  the  lively  and  sincere  Venetian  instead  of  the 
more  hypocritical  zests  of  other  countries. 

Venice  originated  with  fugitives  from  the  Italian  peninsula  during 
the  fierce  time  of  AttUa,  and  subsisted  afterwards  as  an  independent 
state  for  many  centuries,  unbesieged  even  but  by  the  waves.  It's 
famous  oligarchical  form  of  government,  under  which  it  became 
mistress  of  the  sea,  stiU  divides  the  opinions  of  politicians.  Some 
think  it  must  have  been  an  intolerable  tyranny  j  while  others,  among 
whom  is  our  republican  countryman  Harrington,  have  regarded  it 
as  the  true  model  of  a  popular  state.  The  truth  seems  to  be,  that 
the  good  climate  and  chearful  temperament  enjoyed  by  the  Vene- 
tians rendered  them  very  easy  subjects ;  and  this  easiness  had  it's 
effect  in  turn  upon  their  leaders,  who  with  all  their  outward  stateli- 
ness  were  in  reality  like  themselves.  There  was  none  pf  the  physical 
suffering,  which  naturally  renders  the  people  so  impatient  in  harder 
climates ;  and  on  the  other  hand,  the  rulers  were  generally  wise  and 
kind,  and  not  provoked  into  tyranny  either  by  conscious  injustice, 
or  extra-national  ambition.  The  Venetians  were  too  contented  with 
what  was  done  and  allowed,  to  quarrel  for  the  last,  sad  privilege  of 
political  talking  j  and  provided  a  Venetian  did  not  talk  politics,  he 
might  talk  or  do  any  thing  he  pleased.  Thus  they  were  like  a  happy 
family  living  under  a  father  of  austere  aspect  and  real  goodnature. 
But  as  their  less  happy  neighbours  out-grew  them,  this  happy  family 
was  to  be  disturbed  j  and  it  was  so.  Venice  in  common  with  the 
other  northern  states  of  Italy  became  the  property  of  the  greatest 
neighbour  for  the  time  being, — of  the  Court  of  Vienna  first,  then 
of  France,  and  now  of  Vienna  again.  It's  nobles  are  at  length 
ruined ;    it's  palaces  almost  deserted ;  and  the  gay  Venetian,  now 


16  THE  INDICATOR. 

a  pensive  animal  to  what  he  was,  meditates  on  the  approaching  period 
when  his  very  city  is  to  be  forsaken  by  the  sea ;  when  Venice  itself, 
eyeless,  voiceless,  and  dead,  is  to  stand  like  a  gigantic  skeleton  on  a 
stagnant  and  deserted  shore,  whistling  with  the  screams  of  sea-fowl, 
and  the  disdainful  rushing  of  the  wind. 

This  apprehension  now  appears  to  be  a  good  deal  entertained. 
It  was  entertained  a5so  nearly  forty  years  back,  perhaps  long  before ; 
and  was  understood  to  be  disproved  at  that  time.  According  to  the 
systems,,  however,  and  calculations  of  modern  philosophy,  the  sea- 
coasts  all  over  the  globe  are  in  a  constant  state  either  of  an  accression 
or  diminution  of  waters ;  and  the  imagination,  in  its  gloomier  mo- 
ments, may  still  contemplate  the  desolation  of  Venice,  approaching 
or  far  oflF. 

Still  the  Venetians  compared  with  most  other  people  are  a  hap- 
py race.  The  blood  runs  quicker  in  their  veins.  They  have  more 
music,  more  freshness  and  easiness  of  life,  more  cordiality  of 
intercourse.  The  good-natured  philosopher  still  finds  in  Venice  the 
greatest  mixture  of  liveliness  and  sentiment :  the  restless  man  of 
genius,  impatient  of  the  contradiction  of  his  young  hopes,  still  finds 
there  something  to  admire  and  to  love.  If  the  Venetians  have  been 
thought  to  be  of  too  amorous  a  disposition,  they  are  acknowledged 
to  be  temperate  in  every  other  respect,  and  to  make  excellent  parents 
and  kinsfolk  :  and  it  is  to  be  observed  that  in  many  of  the  cities  of 
Italy,  the  proneness  to  love  has  gradually  produced  a  state  of  opinion  on 
those  matters,  le^ss  severe  I  ban  in  some  other  countries;  so  that  they 
do  not  violate  their  consciences  so  much  as  might  be  supposed,  and 
the  guUt  is  of  necessity  diminished  with  the  sense  of  it.  A  late  tra- 
veller says,  that  the  most  striking  thing  after  all,  in  Venice,  is  the 
extreme  kindness  and  attentiveness  of  all  ranks  of  people  to  one 
another.  A  young  man  going  by  with  a  burden  begs  his  "  good 
father"  (any  given  old  gentleman)  to  let  him  have  way  ;  and  the  good 
father  in  as  unaffected  a  tone  is  happy  to  make  way  for  his  "  son." 
It  may  be  answered,  considering  the  Venetian  character,  that  this  is 
but  natural ;  and  that  the  old  gentleman  does  not,  know  whom  he 
may  be  talking  to.  But  these,  we  conceive,  are  evidences  which  the 
disputatious  moralist  would  do  better  in  letting  alone. 


{^As  this  publication  is  unstamped,  it  will  not  circulate  by  means  of  the 
general  post  without  a  heavy  expense.  Persons  in  the  country  who 
wish  to  become  subscribers,  should  therefore  order  it  of  booksellers  who 
send  weekly  or  monthly  parcels  to  their  respective  places  of  residence. 
The  delay  would  be  of  little  consequence  with  a  work  not  containing 
any  ihing  of  merely  temporary  interest.'] , 


Orders  received  by  the  Booksellers,  by  the  Newsmen,  and  by -the  Publisher, 

Joseph  Appleyard,  ly,  Catherine-street,  S.rand. 

Printed  by  C.  H.  Reynell,  No.  45,  Broad-street,  Goldeu-sqnare. 


THE    INDICATOR. 

There  is  a  bird  in  the  interior  of  Africa,  whose  habits  would  rather  seem  to  belong  to  the  interior 
of  Fairy-land :  but  they  have  been  well  authenticated.    It  indicates  to  honey-hunters  where  the  nest* 
of  wild  bees  are  to  be  fotind.  It  calls  them  with  a  cheerful  cry,  which  they  answer;  and  on  finding  Uself 
recognized,  flics  and  hovers  over  a  hollow  tree  containing  the  honey.    While  they  are  occupied  in 
collecting  it,  the  bird  aoes  to  a  little  distance,  where  he  observes  all  that  passes;  and'  the  hnnterS, 
when  they  have  helped  themselves,  take  care  to  leave  him  his  portion  of. the  food.— This  is  the 
CucuLvs  Indicator  of  LinuBeus,  otherwise  called  the  Moroc,  Bee  Cuckoo,  or  Honey  Bird. 
There  he  arriving  round  about  doth  (lie. 
And  takes  survey  with  busie, curious  eye: 
Now  this,  now  that,  he  tasteth  tenderly.— Spensek. 


No.  III.— WEDNESDAY,  OCTOBER  27th,  1819. 


GOD  IV  A. 

This  is  the  lady,  who  under  the  title  of  Countess  of  Coventry,  used 
to  make  such  a  figure  in  our  childhood  upon  some  old  pocket-pieces 
of  that  city.  We  hope  she  is  in  great  request  there  still  j  or  the 
inhabitants  deserve  to  be  sent  from  Coventry.  That  city  used  to 
be  famous  in  saintly  legends  for  the  visit  of  the  eleven  thousand 
virgins, — an  "  incredible  number/'  saith  Selden.  But  the  eleven 
thousand  virgins  have  vanished  with  their  credibility ;  and  a  real  no- 
ble-hearted woman  of  flesh  and  blood  is  Coventry's  true  immortality. 
The  story  of  Godiva  is  not  a  fiction,  as  many  suppose  it.  At  least 
it  is  to  be  found  in  Matthew  of  Westminster,  and  is  not  of  a  nature 
to  have  been  a  mere  invention.  Her  name,  and  that  of  her  hus- 
band, Leofric,  are  mentioned  in  an  old  charter  recorded  by  another 
early  historian.  That  the  story  is  omitted  by  Hume  and  others 
argues  little  against  it}  for  the  latter  are  accustomed  to  confound 
the  most  interesting  anecdotes  of  times  and  manners  with  something 
below  the  dignity  of  history  (a  very  absurd  mistake) ; — and  Hume, 
of  whose  philosophy  better  things  might  have  been  expected,  is 
notoriously  less  philosophical  in  his  history  than  in  any  other  of 
his  works.  A  certain  coldness  of  temperament,  not  unmixed  with 
aristocratical  pride,  or  at  least  with  a  great  aversion  from  every  thing 
like  vulgar  credulity,  rendered  his  scepticism  so  extreme,  that  it 
became  in  spite  of  itself  a  sort  of  superstition  in  turn,  and  blinded 
him  to  the  claims  of  every  species  of  enthusiasm,  civil  as  well  as 
religious.  Milton,  with  his  poetical  eyesight,  saw  better  when  he 
meditated  the  history  of  his  native  country.  We  do  not  remember 
whether  he  relates  the  present  story ;  but  we  remember  well,  that 
?it  the  beginning  of  his  fragment  on  that  subject,  he  says  he  shall 
relate  doubtful  stories  as  well  as  authentic  ones,  for  the  benefit  of 
those,  if  no  others,  who  will  know  how  to  make  use  of  them,^— 
namely,  thg  poets.*     We  have  faith  however  in  the  story  ourselves. 

*  When  Dr.  Johnson,  among  his  other  impatient  accusations  of  our  great  re- 
publican, charged  him  with  telling  unwarrantable  stories  in  his  history,  he  must 
haye  overlooked  this  announcement;  and  yet,  if  we  recollect,  it  is  but  in  the  se_ 
cond  page  of  the  fragment.    So  hasty,  and  blind,  and  liable  to  be  put  to  shame 
is  prejudice. 


18  THE  INDICATOR. 

It  has  innate  evidence  enough  for  us,  to  give  full  weight  to  that  of 
the  old  annalist.  Imagination  can  invent  a  good  dealj  affection 
.more:  but  affection  can  sometimes  do  things,  such  as  the  tenderest 
imagination  is  at  least  not  in  the  habit  of  inventing ;  and  this  piece 
of  noble-heartedness  we  believe  to  have  been  one  of  them. 

Leofric,  Earl  of  Leicester,  was  the  lord  of  a  large  feudal  territory 
in  the  middle  of  England,  of  which  Coventry  formed  a  part.  He 
lived  in  the  time  of  Edward  the  Confessor  5  and  was  so  eminently  a 
feudal  lord,  that  the  hereditary  greatness  of  his  dominion  appears  to 
have  been  singular  even  at  that  time,  and  to  have  lasted  with  an 
uninterrupted  succession  from  Ethelbald  to  the  Conquest, — a  period 
of  more  than  three  hundred  years.  He  was  a  great  and  useful  op- 
ponent of  the  famous  Earl  Goodwin. 

Whether  it  was  owing  to  Leofric  or  not,  does  not  appear;  but 
Coventry  was  subject  to  a  very  oppressive  tollage,  by  which  it  would 
seem  that  the  feudal  despot  enjoyed  the  greater  part  of  the  profit 
of  all  marketable  commodities.  The  progress  of  knowledge  has 
shewn  us  how  abominable,  and  even  how  unhappy  for  all  parties, 
is  an  injustice  of  this  description;  yet  it  gives  one  an  extraordinary 
idea  of  a  mind  in  those  times,  to  see  it  capable  of  piercing  through 
the  clouds  of  custom,  of  ignorance,  and  even  of  self-interest,  and 
petitioning  the  petty  tyrant  to  forego  such  a  privilege.  This  mind 
was  Godiva's.  The  other  sex,  always  more  slow  to  admit  reason 
through  the  medium  of  feeling,  were  then  occupied  to  the  full  in 
their  warlike  habits.  It  was  reserved  for  a  woman  to  anticipate 
whole  ages  of  liberal  opinion,  and  to  surpass  them  in  the  daring 
virtue  of  setting  a  principle  above  a  custom. 

The  countess  entreated  her  lord  to  give  up  his  fancied  right;  but 
in  vain.  At  last,  wishing  to  put  an  end  to  her  importunities,  he 
told  her,  either  in  a  spirit  of  bitter  jesting,  or  with  a  playful  raillery 
that  could  not  be  bitter  with  so  sweet  an  earnestness,  that  he  would 
give  up  his  tax,  provided  she  rode  through  the  city  of  Coventiy, 
naked.  She  took  him  at  his  word ;  and  said  she  would.  One  may 
imagine  the  astonishment  of  a  fierce  unlettered  chieftain,  not  un- 
tinged  with  chivalry,  at  hearing  a  woman,  and  that  too  of  the  great- 
est delicacy  and  rank,  maintaining  seriously  her  intention  of  acting 
in  a  manner  contrary  to  all  that  was  supposed  fitting  tor  her  sex, 
and  at  the  same  time  forcing  upon  him  a  sense  of  the  very  beauty 
of  her  conduct  by  it's  principled  excess.  It  is  probable,  that  as  he 
could  not  prevail  upon  her  to  give  up  her  design,  ixe  had  sworn 
some  religious  oath  when  he  made  his  promise :  but  be  this  as  it 
may,  he  took  every  possible  precaution  to  secure  her  modesty  from 
hurt.  The  people  of  Coventry  were  ordered  to  keep  within  doors,  to 
close  up  all  their  windows  and  outlets,  and  not  to  give  a  glance  into 
the  streets  upon  pain  of  death.  The  day  came;  and  Coventry,  it 
may  be  imagined,  was  silent  as  death.  The  lady  went  out  at  the 
palace  door,  was  set  on  horseback,  and  at  the  same  time  divested  of 
her  wrapping  garment,  as  if  she  had  been  going  into  a  bath ;  then 
taking  the  fillet  from  her  head,  she  let  down  her  long  and  lovely 
tresses,  which  poured  around  her  body  like  a  veil;  aijd  so,  with  only 


THE  INDICATOR.  19 

ker  white  legs  remaining  conspicuous,  took  her  gentle  way  through 
the  streets.* 

What  scene  can  be  more  touching  to  the  imagination, — beauty, 
modesty,  feminine  softness,  a  daring  sympathy ;  an  extravagance, 
producing  by  the  nobleness  of  it's  object  and  the  strange  gentleness 
of  it's  means,  the  grave  and  profound  effect  of  the  most  reverend 
custom.  We  may  suppose  the  scene  taking  place  in  the  warm  noon ; 
the  doors  all  shut,  the  windows  closed  j  the  earl  and  his  court  serious 
and  wondering  J  the  other  inhabitants,  many  of  them  gushing  with 
gi-ateful  tears,  and  all  reverently  listening  to  hear  the  footsteps  of 
the  horse  J  and  lastly,  the  lady  herself,  with  a  downcast  but  not  a 
shamefaced  eye,  looking  towards  the  earth  through  her  flowing 
k)cks,  and  riding  through  the  dumb  and  deserted  streets,  like  an 
angelic  spirit. 

It  was  an  honourable  superstition  in  that  part  of  the  country,  that 
a  man  who  ventured  to  look  at  the  fair  saviour  of  his  native  town, 
was  struck  blind.  But  the  vulgar  use  to  which  this  superstition  has 
been  turned  by  some  writers  of  late  times,  is  not  so  honourable.  The 
whole  story  is  as  unvulgar  and  as  sweetly  serious,  as  can  be  conceived. 

Drayton  has  not  made  so  much  of  this  subject,  as  might  have  been 
expected;  yet  what  he  says,  is  said  welland  earnestly. 

Coventry  at  length 
From  her  small,  mean  regard  recovered  state  and  strength  ; 
By  Leofric  her  lord,  yet  in  base  bondage  held, 
The  people  from  her  marts  by  tollage  were  expelled  ; 
Whose  dutchess  which  desired  this  tribute  to  release. 
Their  freedom  often  begged.     The  duke,  to  make  her  cease. 
Told  her,  that  if  she  would  his  loss  so  far  enforce. 
His  will  was,  she  should  ride  stark  naked  upon  a  horse 
By  daylight  through  the  street :  which  certainly  he  thought 
In  her  heroic  breast  so  deeply  would  have  wrought. 
That  in  her  former  suit  she  would  have  left  to  deal. 
But  that  most  princely  dame,  as  one  devoured  with  zeal, 
Pf^ent  on,  and  by  that  mean  the  city  clearly  freed. 

We  wonder  that  none  of  our  painters  have  yet  drawn  us  Godiva 
upon  her  horse.  They  can  hardly  have  met  with  the  subject,  or 
surely  they  would  have  fallen  in  love  with  it. 

*  "  Nuda,"  says  Matthew  of  Westminster,  "  equum  ascendens,  erines  capitis 
«t  tricas  dissolvens,  corpus  suum  totum,  prjeter  crura  candidissima,  inde  velavit." 
See  Selden's  Notes  to  the  Polyolbion  of  Drayton.  Song  13.  It  is  Selden  from 
whom  we  learn,  that  Leofric  was  Earl  of  Leicester,  and  the  other  particulars 
of  him  mentioned  above.  The  Earl  was  buried  at  Coventry,  his  Countess  most 
probably,  in  the  same  tomb. 


PLEASANT  RECOLLECTIONS  CONNECTED  WITH  VARIOUS  PARTS 
OF  THE  METROPOLIS. 

One  of  the  best  secrets  of  enjoyment  is  the  art  of  cultivating 
pleasant  associations.  We  spoke  of  this  in  our  first  number,  and 
shall  often  hjtve  occasion  to  recur  to  it.  It  is  an  art  that  of  neces- 
sity increases  with  the  stock  of  our  knowledge  ;  and  though  in  ac- 
quiring our  knowledge  we  must  encounter  disagreeable  associations 


30  THE  INDICATOR. 

also,  yet  if  we  secure  a  reasonable  quantity  of  health  by  the  way> 
these  will  be  far  less  in  number  than  the  agreeable  ones  r  for  unless 
the  circumstances  which  gave  rise  to  the  associations,  press  upon 
usj  it  is  only  from  want  of  health  that  the  power  of  throwing  off 
these  burdensome  images  becomes  suspended. 

And  the  beauty  of  this  art  is,  that  it  does  not  insist  upon  pleasant 
materials  to  work  on.  Nor  indeed  does  health.  Health  will  give  ua 
a  vague  sense  of  delight,  in  the  midst  of  objects  that  would  teaze 
and  oppress  us  during  sickness.  But  healthy  association  peoples  this 
vague  sense  with  agreeable  images.  It  will  relieve  us,  even  when 
a  painful  sympathy  with  the  distresses  of  others  becomes  a  part  of 
the  very  health  of  our  minds.  For  instance,  we  can  never  go 
through  St.  Giles's,  but  the  sense  of  the  extravagant  inequalities  in 
human  condition  presses  more  forcibly  upon  us  ;  but  some  pleasant 
images  are  at  hand  even  there  to  refresh  it.  They  do  not  displace 
the  others,  so  as  to  injure  the  sense  of  public  duty  which  they  ex- 
cite ;  they  only  serve  to  keep  our  spirits  fresh  for  their  task,  and 
hinder  them  from  running  into  desperation  or  hopelessness.  In 
St.  Giles's  Church  lie  Chapman,  the  earliest  and  best  translator  of 
Homer ;  and  Andrew  Mar  veil,  the  wit  and  patriot,  whose  poverty 
Charles  the  Second  could  not  bribe.  We  are  as  sure  to  think  of 
these  two  men,  and  of  all  the  good  and  pleasure  they  have  done  to 
the  world,  as  of  the  less  happy  objects  about  us.  The  steeple  of  the 
church  itself  too  is  a  handsome  one  ;  and  there  is  a  flock  of  pigeons 
in  that  neighbourhood,  which  we  have  stood  with  great  pleasure  to 
see  careering  about  it  of  a  fine  afternoon,  when  a  western  wind  had 
swept  back  the  smoke  towards  the  city,  and  shewed  the  white  of 
the  stone  steeple  piercing  up  into  a  blue  sky.  So  much  for  St. 
Giles's,  whose  very  name  is  a  nuisance  with  some.  It  is  danger- 
ous to  speak  disrespectfully  of  old  districts.  Who  would  suppose 
that  the  Borough  was  the  most  classical  ground  in  the  metropolis  ? 
And  yet  it  is  undoubtedly  so.  The  Globe  theatre  was  there,  of 
which  Shakspeare  himself  was  a  proprietor,  and  for  which  he  wrote 
his  plays.  Globe-lane,  in  which  it  stood,  is  still  extant,  we  believe, 
under  that  name.  It  is  probable  that  he  lived  near  it  :  it  is  certain 
that  he  must  have  been  much  there.  It  is  also  certain  that  on  the 
Borough  side  of  the  river,  then  and  still  called  the  Bank  side,  in  the 
same  lodging,  having  the  same  wardrobe,  and  some  say,  with  other 
participations  more  remarkable,  lived  Beaumont  and  Fletcher.  In 
the  Borough  also,  at  St.  >  Saviour's,  lie  Fletcher  and  Massinger  in 
one  grave ;  in  the  same  church,  under  a  monument  and  effigy,  lies 
Chaucer's  contemporary,  Gower  ;  and  from  an  inn  in  the  Borough, 
the  existence  of  which  is  still  boasted,  and  the  scite  pointed  out  by  a 
picture  and  inscription,  Chaucer  sets  out  his  pilgrims  and  himself  on 
their  famous  road  to  Canterbury. 

To  return  over  the  water,  who  would  expect  any  thing  poetical 
from  East  Smithfield  ?  Yet  there  was  born  the  most  poetical  even 
of  poets,  Spenser.  Pope  was  born  within  the  sound  of  Bow-bell,  in 
a  street  no  less  anti-poetical  than  Lombard-street.  So  was  Gray,  in 
CornhiU.    So  was  Milton,  in  Bread-streetj  Cheapside.    The  presence 


THE  INDICATOR.  21 

of  the  same  great  poet  and  patriot  has  given  happy  memories  to 
many  parts  of  the  metropolis.  He  lived  in  St.  Bride's  Church- 
yard, Fleet-street ;  in  Aldersgate-street,  in  Jewin-street,  in  Barbi- 
can, in  Bartholomew  -  close  ;  in  Holborn,  looking  back  to  Lin- 
coln's Inn  Fields  ;  in  Holborn,  near  Red  Lion-square  ;  in  Scotland- 
yard  ;  in  a  house  looking  to  St.  James's  Park,  now  belonging  to  an 
eminent  writer  on  legislation,  and  lately  occupied  by  a  celebrated 
critic  and  metaphysician  ;  and  he  died  in  the  ArtiUery-walk,  Bun- 
hiU-Fields  ;  and  was  buried  in  St.  Giles's,  Cripplegate. 

Ben  Jonson,  who  was  born  "  in  Hartshorne-lane,  near  Charing- 
cross,"  was  at  one  time  "master"  of  a  theatre  in  Barbican.  He 
appears  also  to  have  visited  a  tavern  called  the  Sun  and  Moon,  in 
Aldersgate-street  ;  and  is  known  to  have  frequented,  with  Beau- 
mont and  others,  the  famous  one  called  the  Mermaid,  which  was 
in  Cornhill.  Beaumont,  writing  to  him  from  the  country  in  an  epis- 
tle full  of  jovial  wit,  says. 

The  sun,  which  doth  the  greatest  comfort  bring. 
To  absent  friends,  because  the  self-same  thing 
They  know  they  see,  however  absent,  is 
Here  our  best  haymaker :  forgive  me  this : 
It  is  our  country  style : — in  this  warm  sliine 
I  lie,  and  dream  of  your  full  Mermaid  wine. 
****** 

Methinks  the  little  wit  I  had,  is  lost, 
Since  I  saw  you;  for  wit  is  like  a  rest 
Held  up  at  tennis,  which  men  do  the  best 
.  With  the  best  gamesters.  What  things  have  we  seen 
Done  at  the  Mermaid .'  Hard  words  that  have  been 
So  nimble,  and  so  full  of  subtle  flame. 

As  if  that  every  one  from  whom  they  came  ] 

Had  meant  to  put  his  whole  wit  in  a  jest. 
And  had  resolved  to  live  a  fool  the  rest 
Of  his  dull  life.  Then,  when  there  hath  been  thrown 
Wit,  able  enough  to  justify  the  town 
For  three  days  past, — wit,  that  might  warrant  be 
For  the  whole  city  to  talk  foolishly 
Till  that  were  cancelled,  and  when  that  was  gone. 
We  left  an  air  behind  us,  which  alone 
Was  able  to  make  the  two  next  companies 
Right  witty, — though  but  downright  fools,  mere  wise, 

.  The  other  celebrated  report  of  the  great  wits  of  that  time,  was  the 
Devil  Tavern,  in  Fleet-street,  close  to  Temple- Bar.  Ben  Jonson 
lived  also  in  Bartholomew-close,  where  Milton  afterwards  lived.  It 
is.  in  the  passage  from  the  cloisters  of  Christ's  Hospital  into  St.  Bar- 
tholomew's, Aubrey  gives  it  as  a  common  opinion,  that  at  the  time 
when  Jonson's  father-in-law  made  him  help  him  in  his  business  of 
bricklayer,  he  worked  with  his  own  hands  upon  the  Lincoln's  Inn 
garden  wall,  which  looks  upon  Chancery-lane,  and  which  seems  old 
enough  to  have  some  of  his  illustrious  brick  and  mortar  still  reoiaining. 
Under  the  cloisters  in  Christ's  Hospital  (which  stand  in  the  heart 
of  the  city  unknown  to  most  persons,  like  a  house  kept  invisible  for 
young  and  learned  eyes)  lie  buried  a  multitude  of  peisons  of  all 
ranks  j  for  it  was  once  a  monastery  of  Grey  Friars.  Among  them  is 
John  of  Bourbon,  one  of  the  prisoners  taken  at  the  battle  of  Agin- 


22  THE  INDICATOR. 

court.  Here  also  lies  Thomas  Burdet,  ancestor  of  the  present  Sir 
Francis,  who  was  put  to  death  in  the  reign  of  Edward  the  Fourth, 
for  wishing  the  horns  of  a  favourite  white  stag  which  the  king  had 
killed,  in  the  body  of  the  person  who  advised  him  to  do  it.  And 
here  too  (a  sufficing  contrast)  lies  Isabella,  wife  of  Edward  the  Second, 

She,  wolf  of  France,  with  unrelenting  fangs. 
Who  tore  the  bowels  of  lier  mangled  mate. — Gray. 

Her  "  mate's  "  heart  was  buried  with  lier,  and  placed  upon  her 
bosom  !  a  thing  that  looks  like  the  fantastic  incoherence  of  a  dream. 
It  is  well  we  did  not  know  of  her  presence  when  at  school  ;  or  after 
reading  one  of  Shakspeare's  tragedies,  we  should  have  run  twice  as 
fast  round  the  cloisters  at  night  time,  as  we  used.  Camden,  "  the 
nourrice  of  antiquitie,"  received  part  of  his  education  in  this  school ; 
and  here  also,  not  to  mention  a  variety  of  others  known  in  the  lite- 
rary world,  were  bred  two  of  the  most  powerful  and  deep-spirited 
writers  of  the  present  day  ;  whose  visits  to  the  cloisters  we  well  re- 
member. 

In  a  palace  on  the  scite  of  Hatton  Garden,  died  John  of  Gaunt. 
Brook  House,  at  the  corner  of  the  street  of  that  name  in  Holborn, 
was  the  residence  of  the  celebrated  Sir  Fulke  Greville,  Lord  Brook,, 
the  "  friend  of  Sir  Philip  Sydney."  In  the  same  street,  died,  by  a 
voluntary  death,  of  poison,  that  extraordinary  person  Thomas  Chat- 
terton, — 

The  sleepless  boy,  who  perished  in  his  pride. 

Wordsworth. 

He  was  buried  in  the  workhouse  in  Shoe  Lane  ; — a  circumstance,  at 
which  one  can  hardly  help  feeling  a  movement  of  indignation.  Yet 
what  could  beadles  and  parish  officers  know  about  such  a  being.'' 
No  more  than  Horace  Walpole.  In  Gray's  Inn  lived,  and  in  Gray's 
Inn  garden  meditated.  Lord  Bacon.  In  Southampton  Row,  Holborn, 
Cowper  was  a  fellow-clerk  to  an  attorney  with  the  future  Lord 
Chancellor  Thurlow.  At  the  Fleet  Street  corner  of  Chancery  Lane, 
Cowley,  we  believe,  was  born.  In  Salisbury  Court,  Fleet  Street,  was 
the  house  of  Thomas  Sackville,  first  Earl  of  Dorset,  the  precursor 
of  Spenser,  and  one  of  the  authors  of  the  first  regular  English  tra- 
gedy. On  the  demolition  of  this  house,  part  of  the  ground  was 
occupied  by  the  celebrated  theatre  built  after  the  Restoration,  at 
which  Betterton  performed,  and  of  which  Sir  William  Davenant  was 
manager.  Lastly,  here  was  the  house  and  pi'inting-office  of  Richard- 
sou,  In  Bolt-court,  not  far  distant,  lived  Dr.  Johnson,  who  resided 
also  for  some  time  in  the  Temple.  A  list  of  his  numerous  other  re- 
sidences is  to  be  found  in  Boswell.*  Congreve  died  in  Surrey-street, 
in  the  Strand,  at  his  own  house.  At  the  corner  of  Beaufort- build- 
ings, was  Lilly's,  the  perfumer,  at  whose  house  the  Tatler  was  pub- 
lished. In  Maiden-lane,  Covent-garden,  Voltaire  lodged  while  in 
London,  at  the  sign,  of  the   White  Peruke,     Tavistock-street  was 

'^  *  The  Temple  must  have  had  many  eminent  inmates.  Among  them  it  is 
believed  was  Chaucer,  who  is  also  said,  npon  the  strength  of  an  old  record,  to 
have  been  fined  two  shillings  for  beating  a  Franciscan  friar  in  Fleet  Street, 


THE  INDICATOR.  23 

then,  we  believe,  the  Bond-street  of  the  fashionable  world  ;  as  Bow- 
street  was  before.  The  change  of  Bow- street  from  fashion  to  the  police, 
with  the  theatre  still  in  attendance,  remiiids  one  of  the  spirit  of  the 
Beggar's  Opera.  Button's  CoflFee-house,  the  resort  of  the  wits  of  Queen 
Anne's  time,  was  in  Russell- street, — we  believe,  near  where  the 
Hummums  now  stand.  We  think  we  recoUect  reading  also,  that  in 
the  same  street,  at  one  of  the  corners  of  Bow-street,  was  tiie  tavern 
where  Dryden  held  regal  possession  of  the  arm  chair.  The  whole 
of  Covent-garden  is  classic  ground,  from  its  association  with  the 
dramatic  and  other  wits  of  the  times  of  Dryden  and  Pope.  Butler 
lived,  perhaps  died,  in  Rose- street,  and  was  buried  in  Covent-garden 
Church-yard  ;  where  Peter  Pindar  the  other  day  followed  him.  In 
Leicester-square,  on  the  scite  of  Miss  Linwood's  exhibition  and  other 
houses,  was  the  town  mansion  of  the  Sydneys,  Earls  of  Leicester, 
the  family  of  Sir  Philip  and  Algernon  Sydney.  In  the  same  square 
lived  Sir  Joshua  Reynolds.  Dryden  lived  and  died  in  Gerrard-street, 
in  a  house  which  looked  backwards  into  the  garden  of  Leicester 
House.  Newton  lived  in  St.  Martin's-street,  on  the  south  side  of 
the  square.  Steele  lived  in  Bury-street,  St.  James's :  he  furnishes  an 
illustrious  precedent  for  the  loungers  in  St.  James's-street,  where  a 
scandal-monger  of  those  times  delighted  to  detect  Isaac  BickerstafF  in 
the  person  of  Captain  Steele,  idling  before  the  Coffee-houses,  and 
jerking  his  leg  and  stick  alternately  against  the  pavement.  We 
have  mentioned  the  birth  of  Ben  Jonson  near  Charing-cross.  Spen- 
ser died  at  an  inn,  where  he  put  up  on  his  arrival  from  Ireland,  in 
King-street,  Westminster,  —  the  same  which  runs  at  the  back  of 
Parliament-street  to  the  Abbey.  Sir  Thomas  More  lived  at  Chelsea. 
Addison  lived  and  died  in  Holland-House,  Kensington,  now  the  re- 
sidence of  the  accornplished  nobleman  who  takes  his  title  from  it. 
In  Brook-street,  Grosvenor-square,  lived  Handel  ;  and  in  Bentinck- 
street,  Manchester- square.  Gibbon.  We  have  omitted  to  mention 
that  De  Foe  kept  a  hosier's  shop  in  Cornhill  ;  and  that  on  the  scite 
of  the  present  Southampton-buildings,  Chancery-lane,  stood  the 
mansion  of  the  Wriothesleys,  Earls  of  Southampton,  one  of  whom 
was  the  celebrated  friend  of  Shakspeare.  But  what  have  we  not 
omitted  also  ?  No  less  an  illustrious  head  that  the  Boar's,  in  East- 
cheap, — thfe  Boar's  Head  Tavern,  the  scene  of  Falstaff 's  revels.  We 
believe  tlie  place  is  still  marked  out  by  a  similar  sign.  But  who 
knows  not  East- cheap  and  the  Boar's  Head  ?  Have  we  not  all  baen 
there  time  out  of  mind  ?  And  is  it  not  a  more  real  as  well  as  noto- 
rious thing  to  us  than  the  London  Tavern,  or  the  Crown  and  An- 
chor, or  the  Hummums,  or  White's,  or  What's-his-name's,  or  any 
other  of  your  contemporary  and  fleeting  taps  ? 

But  a  line  or  two,  a  single  sentence  in  an  author  of  former  times, 
will  often  give  a  value  to  the  commonest  object.  It  not  only  gives 
us  a  sense  of  its  duration,  but  we  seem  to  be  looking  at  it  in  company 
with  its  old  observer ;  and  we  are  reminded  at  the  same  time  of  all  that 
•was  agreeable  in  him.  We  never  saw,  for  instance,  even  the  gilt  ball 
at  the  top  of  the  College  of  Physicians,  without  thinking  of  that  plea- 


^  THE  INDICATOR. 

sant  mention  of  it.  in  Garth's  Dispensary,  and  of  all  the  wit  syad 
generosity  of  that  amiable  man  : — 

'         i*Jot  far  from  that  most  celebrated  place,* 
'        Where  angry  Justice  shews  her  awful  face; 
Where  little  villains  must  submit  to  fate 
That  great  ones  may  enjoy  the  world  in  state ; 
There  stands  a  dome,  majestic  to  the  sight. 
And  sumptuous  arches  bear  it's  oval  height; 
A  golden  globe,  placed  high  with  artful  skill. 
Seems,  to  the  distant  sight,  a  gilded  pill. 
*  The  Old  Bailey. 

Gay,  in  describing  the  inconvenience  of  the  late  narrow  part  of 
tlie  Strand,  by  St.  Clement's,  took  away  a  portion  of  it's  unpleasant- 
ness to  the  next  generation,  by  associating  his  memory  with  the 
objects  in  it.  We  did  not  miss  without  regret  even  the  "  combs" 
that  hung  "^^  dangling  in  your  face"  at  a  shop  which  be  describes, 
and  which  was  standing  till  the  improvements  took  place.  The  rest 
of  the  picture  is  still  alive.  (Trivia,  Book  3d.) 

Where  the  fair  columns  of  St.  Clement  stand. 
Whose  straitened  bounds  encroach  upon  the  Strand  ; 
Where  the  low  pent-house  bows  the  walker's  head. 
And  the  rough  pavement  wounds  the  yielding  tread  ; 
Where  not  a  post  protects  the  narrow  space. 
And  strung  in  twines,  combs  dangle  in  thy  face ; 
Summon  at  once  1;by  courage,  rouse  thy  Care, 
Stanrl  firm,  look  back,  be  resolute,  beware. 
Forth  issuing  from  steep  lanes,  the  collier's  steeds 
Drag  the  black  load;  another  cart  succeeds; 
Team  follows  team,  crouds  heaped  on  crouds  appeal*. 
And  wait  impatient  till  the  road  grow  clear. 

There  is  a  touch  in  the  winter  picture  in  the  same  poem,  which 

every  body  will  recognize : — 

At  White's  the  harnessed  chairman  idly  stands, 
And  swings  around  his  waist  his  tingling  hands. 

The  bewildered  passenger  in  the  Seven  Dials  is  compared  to  Theseus 
in  the  Cretan  Labyrinth.  And  thus  we  come  round  to  the  point  at 
which  we  began. 

Before  we  rest  our  wings,  however,  we  must  take  anbthei^  dtift 
over  the  city,  as  far  as  Stratford  at  Bow,  where,  with  all  due  tender- 
ness for  boarding-school  French,  a  joke  of  Chaucer's  has  existed  as  a 
piece  of  local  humour  for  nearly  four  hundred  and  fifty  years.  Speak- 
ing of  the  Prioress,  who  makes  such  a  delicate  figure  among  his 
Canterbury  Pilgrims,  he  tells  us,  among  her  other  accomplishments, 
that 

French  she  spake  fij^ll  faire  and  featously ; 

adding  with  great  gravity. 

After  the  school  of  Stratford  atte  Bowe ; 
For  French  of  Paris  was  to  her  unknowe. 


fPerlons  in  the  conntrv,  wlio  wish  to  become  subscribers  to  this  publication,  shonld  order  it  of  boolc- 
.seJlers  who  send  weelvly  or  monthly  parcels  to  their  respective  places  of  residence.  The  delay  woi<id 
be  of  little  consequence  with  a  work  not  containing  any  thing  of  merely  temporwy  interest.] 


Orders  received  by  the  Booksellers,  by  the  Newsmen,  and  by  the  Publisher,  Joseph  Appleysrd, 

No.  19,  Catherine-street,  Strand. — Price  Twopence. 

Printed  by  C.  H.  Reynell,  No.  46,  Broad-street,  Golden-»<iviare,  London. 


THE    INDICATOR. 

There  is  a  bird  in  the  interior  of  Africa,  wliose  habits  would  ratlier  seem  to  belong  to  the  interior 
of  Fairjr-land :  but  tliey  have  been  well  authenticated.  It  indicates  to  honey-huuters  Where  the  nests 
of  wild  bees  are  to  be  found.  It  calls  them  with  a  cheerful  cry,  which  they  answer;  and  on  finding  itself 
recognized,  flies  and  hovers  over  a  hollow  tree  containing  the  honey.  While  they  are  occupied  in 
collecting  it,  the  bird  poes  to  a  little  distance,  wfiere  he  observes  all  that  passes ;  and  the  hunters, 
when  they  have  helped  themselves,  take  care  to  leave  him  his  portion  of  the  food. — This  is  the 
CircirLt's  Indicator  of  Linnaeus,  otherwise  called  the  Moroc,  Bee  Cuckoo,  or  Honey  Bird. 

There  he  arriving  round  about  doth,flie, 

And  takes  survey  with  busie,  curious  eye: 

Now  this,  now  that,  he  tasteth  tenderly.— Spenser. 


No.  IV.— WEDNESDAY,  NOVEMBER  3d,  1819. 


THE  BEAU  MISER,  AND  WHAT  HAPPENED  TO  HIM  AT  BRIGHTON. 

There  was  a  man  of  the  name  of  Kennedy,  who  was  well  known 
to  people  of  fashion  in  our  childhood,  but  with  whose  origin,  pfeteri- 
sions,  or  way  of  living,  nobody  was  acquainted.  That  he  was  rich 
was  certain,  for  he  wore  the  most  precious  stones  on  his  fingers,  and 
was  known  to  keep  a  great  deal  of  money  at  a  banker's.  He  was 
evidently  very  fond  of  the  upper  circles,  and  for  some  time  was  ad- 
mitted into  their  parties.  He  was  now  and  then  at  the  opera  j 
oftener  at  routs  and  balls  ;  and  always  went  to  court,  when  he  could 
get  there. 

We  have  heard  him  described.  He  was  a  very  spare  man,  not 
much  above  thirty,  of  the  middle  height,  with  eyes  a  little  shut  and 
lowering,  a  small  nose,  and  a  very  long  chin.  But  he  dressed  ex- 
tremely well  ;  had  a  softness  of  manners  amounting  to  the  timid ; 
and  paid  exceeding  homage  to  every  person  and  thing  of  any  fashion- 
able repute. 

All  this,  for  some  tirtie,  procured  hiih  a  good  reception;  but  at  last, 
people  began  to  wonder  that  though  he  got  in^dtations  from  eveiy 
body,  he  gave  none  himself.  It  was  not  even  known  that  her  evei* 
fidade  a  present,  or  had  a  person  home  with  him  even  to  a  luhch^tt 
or  a  cup  of  tea.  Twice  he  gave  a  great  dinner,  at  which  it-  waS 
owned  that  there  was  a  profusion  of  every  thing  ;  but  though  it  Was 
not  at  a  tavern,  it  was  not  at  his  own  place  of  abode  ;  and  the  peo 
pie  of  the  house  knew  nothing  about  him. 

All  this  gave  rise  to  a  suspicion,  that  he  was  a  miser  j  and  pebple 
soon  contrived  to  have  pretty  strong  proofe  of  nt.  In  vain  the  least 
bashful  of  his  acquaintances  admired  the  beauty  of  his  numerous 
rings  5  in  vain  others  applied  to  him  for  loans  of  money,  some  by 
way  of  trial  and  others  from  necessity  ;  in  vain  his  movements^ 
were  watched  by  the  moi^  idle  and  gossiping ;  in  vain  hints  were 
thrown  out  and  questions  asked,  and  his  very  footsteps  pursued. 
His  rings  were  all  keepsakes  -,  he  aiwayi  had  no  mohey  juif  then ; 


26  THE  INDICATOR. 

he  referred  for  his  lodgings  to  an  hotel,  where  he  occasionally  put 
up,  perhaps  for  that  very  purpose ;  and  a  curious  fellow,  who  en- 
deavoured to  follow  him  home  one  night,  was  led  such  an  enormous 
round  through  street  after  street,  and  even  suburb  after  suburb,  that 
he  gave^up  the  point  with  an  oath. 

After  this,  his  acquaintance  grew  more  and  more  shy  of  him  : 
they  gradually  left  off  inviting  him  to  their  houses,  some  from  mer- 
cenary disappointment,  some  from  a  more  generous  disgust,  others 
because  the  rest  did  so  ;  and  at  last,  just  after  a  singular  adventure 
which  happened  to  him  at  Brighton,  he  totally  disappeared. 

Every  body  took  him  for  a  madman  on  that  occasion.  He  had 
not  been  at  the  place  above  a  day  or  two,  and  was  seen,  during 
that  time,  walking  about  the  beach  very  thoughtfully,  with  an  air 
of  sorrow,  owing,  it  was  conjectured,  to  his  having  put  himself  to 
the  expense  of  travelling  without  obtaining  his  expected  repay- 
ment, for  nobody  invited  him.  But  be  this  as  it  may,  he  was 
seen,  one  morning,  running  in  the  most  violent  manner  across  the 
Steyne,  and  crying  out  "  Fire  !  "  His  face  was  as  pale  as  death  ;  he 
seemed  every  now  and  then,  in  the  midst  of  his  haste,  to  be  twitched 
and  writhed  up  with  a  sort  of  convulsion  ;  and  his  hat  having  been 
blown  off  by  the  wind,  no  wonder  he  was  thought  seized  with  a 
frenzy.  Yet  when  he  arrived  at  his  lodging,  there  was  no  fire,  nor 
even  a  symptom  of  it. 

.  The  suspicion  of  his  being  out  of  his  wits,  was  rendered  still 
stronger  by  a  rumovir  which  took  place  the  same  day ;  for  the  servants 
of  the  family  which  he  used  to  visit  most,  and  in  which  he  was  pay- 
ing his  addresses  to  a  young  lady,  declared  that  not  many  minutes 
after  the  uproar  about  the  fire,  he  came  to  their  master's  house, 
through  the  by-ways,  with  a  coal-heaver's  hat  on.  And  the  assertion 
was  confirmed  by  some  tradesmen  who  had  seen  him  pass,  and  by 
some  boys  who  had  followed  him  with  shouts  and  nick-names. 

The  naystery  supplied  the  world  with  talk  for  more  than  a  week, 
when  at  length  it  was  explained  through  the  family  we  have  just  men- 
tioned. Kennedy,  it  seems,  was  really  a  miser,  and  had  inheiited 
the  estates  of  a  third  or  fourth  cousin,  whose  name  he  took.  He  had 
had  little  or  no  acquaintance  with  his  kinsman,  before  he  foxind  him- 
self his  heir.  His  father  was  a  petty  overseer  somewhere  or  other, 
at  a  great  distance  from  London  j  and  the  cousin,  whose  estates  he 
succeeded  to,  was  the  son  of  a  general  officer  in  the  East-India  ser- 
vice. The  cousin  had  had  a  son  whom  he  sent  abroad  to  follow 
Ills  grandfather's  profession ;  but  receiving  the  news  of  his  death  a 
little  before  his  own,  he  sickened  the  faster,  and  being  in  a  state 
of  great  weakness  and  despondency,  left  his  estates  to  his  next  heir, 
without  having  much  heart  to  inquire  what  sort  of  person  he  was. 
The  fortunate  young  overseer  quitted  his  shop  immediately,  and 
coming  up  to  town  had  occasion  to  wait  on  a  young  lady,  to  whom 
his  cousin's  son  had  been  attached.  It  was  to  give  her  a  lock  of  her 
lover's  hair,  and  a  gold  watch,  which  his  father  sent  her  with  it  in 
token  of  his  own  regard  for  her.    A  little  note  acconipanied  them. 


THE  INDICATOR.  2?" 

which  she  shewed  one  day  with  the  tears  in  her  eyeSj  though  she  was 
then  happy  enough  : — 

' '  I  leave  you  no  money,  my  dear  child  ;  I  am  dying,  and  you  are 
wealthy  enough,  and  money  is  not  the  thing  wanted  by  either  of  us. 
Just  before  I  received  the  news  of  my  poor  boy's  death,  he  sent  me 

this  lock  of  his  hair  for  you,  to  shew  you  how  glossy  and  healthy 

Excuse  me,  my  love  ; — the  tears  blot  out  what  I  was  going  to  write ; 
and  so  they  ought.  But  I  know  well  enough  that  the  kind-hearted 
generous  girl  who  was  worthy  of  him,  will  think  I  pay  her  a  greater 
compliment  in  leaving  her  only  what  belonged  to  her  Charles,  than 
if  I  had  sent  her  all  the  money  which  he  never  possessed.  The  next 
heir,  I  am  told,  is  a  good  young  man,  and  he  is  poor,  with  a  number 
of  poor  relations.  The  watch  was  Charles's,  when  a  boy.  My  fa- 
ther gave  it  me,  and  I  to  him,  and  he  used  to  say  that  he  would 

God  in  heaven  bless  you,  my  poor,  sweet  girl,  prays  your  old 

Charles  Kennedy." 

The  consequence  of  the  new  heir's  visiting  Miss  Cameron,  was  his 
falling  in  love  with  her  ;  if  such  a  miser  as  he  turned  out  to  be, 
could  be  said  to  fall  in  love.  But  though  she  could  not  help  pitying 
him  at  first,  as  she  afterwards  said,  it  was  only  on  account  of  his 
strange  habits,  which  she  soon  detected,  and  which  she  foresaw  would 
make  him  ridiculous  and  unhappy  wherever  he  went.  He  soon  tired 
and  disgusted  her.  After  a  very  unequivocal  repulse  one  day,  which 
seemed  to  make  him  prodigiously  thoughtful  and  unhappy,  he  came 
in  the  evening,  with  a  mixture  of  odd  triumph  and  uneasiness  in  his 
aspect,  at  which  Miss  Cameron  said  she  could  hardly  forbear 
laughing,  even  from  a  feeling  of  bitterness.  She  saw  that  he  ex- 
pected to  make  an  impression  on  her  of  some  sort ;  and  so  he  did  ; 
for  taking  an  opportunity  of  speaking  with  her  alone,  he  drew  out  of 
his  waistcoat  pocket,  with  much  anxiety,  the  first  present  his  wealth 
had  ever  made  her, — a  fine  diamond  pin.  A  very  fine  one  she  confest 
it  was.  It  was  clear  that  he  thought  this  irresistible  ;  and  nothing 
could  exceed  his  surprise  when  she  refused  him  peremptorily  once 
more,  and  the  pin  with  him.  She  owned  that  her  sense  of  the  ridi- 
culous so  far  surmounted  her  other  feelings,  as  to  give  her  a  passing 
inclination  to  accept  the  diamond,  as  she  knew  very  well  that  he  had 
reckoned  on  its  returning  to  him  by  marriage.  I5ut  her  contempt 
recovered  itself;  and  her  disgust  and  scorn  were  completed  by  his 
mentioning  the  words  "  Mrs.  Kennedy,"  which  brought  so  noble 
and  lamented  a  contrast  before  her,  and  visited  her  so'  fiercely  with 
a  sense  of  what  she  had  lost,  that  she  quitted  the  room  with  a  sort 
of  breathless  and  passionate  murmur. 

This  was  but  the  day  before  the  adventure  of  the  fire.  She  was 
almost  inclined  on  the  latter  occasion  to  think  him  mad,  as  others 
did,  especially  when  he  once  naore  appeared  before  her,  shuffling  in 
a  most  ludicrous  manner  with  something  in  his  hand  which  he  wished 
to  conceal,  and  which  she  found  afterwards  was  the  hat.    He  would 


38  THE  INDICATOR. 

not  have  ventured  to  appear  before  her  again  j  but  the  truth  was^ 
that  her  father,  who  was  but  an  ordinary  sort  of  monied  man,  and 
not  very  delicate,  did  not  interfere  as  he  ought,  to  prevent  her  being 
thus  persecuted.  But  not  only  was  the  mystery  explained  to  her 
next  day  :  it  was  the  most  important  one  of  both  their  lives. 

On  the  morning  when  Kennedy  was  frightened  by  the  fire,  he  was 
standing  very  thoughtfully  by  the  Ship  Inn,  near  the  sea-side,  when 
he  was  suddenly  clapped  by  somebody  on  the  shoulder.  He  turned 
round  with  a  start,  and  saw  a  face  which  he  knew  well  enough.  It 
was  that  of  a  gentleman  who,  riding  once  when  a  youth,  by  the  place 
where  he  lived,  had  saved  him  from  drowning  in  a  little  piece  of 
water.  Some  mischievous  companions  had  hustled  him  into  it,  not 
knowing  how  far  their  malicious  joke  might  have  gone.  When  he 
was  pulled  out  and  had  recovered  from  his  first  fright,  he  thanked 
the  young  gentleman  in  as  warm  a  way  as  he  could  express ;  and 
taking  fourpence-halfpenny  out  of  a  little  leathern  bag,  offered  it 
him  as  a  proof  of  his  gratitude.  The  young  gentleman  declining  it 
with  a  good-natured  smile,  thinking  the  offer  to  be  the  effect  of 
mere  simplicity  5  but  the  lads  who  were  looking  on,  and  who  had 
helped  to  get  him  out  when  told  of  the  danger,  burst  out  into  taunt" 
ing  reproaches  of  the  fellow's  meanness,  and  informed  his  preserver 
that  he  had  at  least  three  shillings  in  the  other  fob  pf  his  leathern 
bag,  besides  silver  pennies.  So  saying,  they  wrenched  it  out  of  his 
hands  in  spite  of  his  crying  and  roaring  j  and  one  of  them  opening 
it,  shook  out,  together  with  the  water,  five  shillings  in  sixpences, 
and  the  silver  pennies  to  boot.  The  young  gentleman  laughed  and 
Mushed  at  the  same  instant,  and  not  knowing  well  what  to  do,  for 
he  longed  to  give  the  young  miser  a  lesson,  and  yet  thought  it  would 
be  unjust  to  share  the  money  between  the  lads  who  had  nearly 
drowned  him,  said  to  him,  "  I  am  not  the  only  one  to  whom  you 
are  indebted  for  being  saved,  for  it  was  the  sci-eams  of  those  little 
girls  there  which  brought  m,e  to  you,  and  so  you  know,"  continued 
he,  with  a  laugh  which  the  others  joined,  "  they  ought  to  be  re-r 
"warded  as  well  as  myself.  Don't  you  think  so  ? "  "  Yes,  Sir," 
mumbled  the  young  hunks,  half  frightened,  and  half  sulky.  The 
young  gentleman  then  divided  all  the  silver  but  a  shilling  among 
the  little  girls,  who  dropped  him  a  hundred  curtsies  ;  and  giving  the 
fourpence-halfpenny  to  the  boy  who  had  been  most  forward  in  help- 
ing, and  least  noisy  in  accusing,  rode  off  amidst  the  shouts,  of  the  rest, 

It  was  the  first  time  the  two  had  met  since.  *'  1  believe,"  said 
the  stranger,  with  a  sort  of  smile,  "  I  have  had  the  honour  of  meet- 
ing you  before  ? "  "  The  same.  Sir,"  answered  the  other,  "  at  you^ 
service.  I  believe.  Sir, — I  think, — I  am  sure."  "  Yes,  Sir,"  re- 
turned the  stranger,  "  it  was  I  who  played  you  that  trick  with  youv 
bag  of  sixpences." —  '•' Oh,  dear  Sir,"  rejoined  t  the  other,  half 
ashamed  at  the  recollection,  and  admiring  the  fashionable  air  of  his 
preserver,  "1  am  sure  I  had' no  reason  to  complain.  Been  abroad. 
Sir,  I  presume,  by  a  certain  brownness  of  complexion,  not  at  all  un- 
becoming ? "     "  Yes,  Sir,"  said  the  gentleman,  smiliDg  more  and 


THE  INDICATOR.  29 

more  :  "^  I  hope  you  have  be^  as  lucky  at  home,  as  some  of  us  who 
go  abroad  ?  " 

"  Why,  yes.  Sir ; — I  have  a  pretty  fortune,  thank  heaven,  though 
at  present — just  now — " 

"  Oh,  my  dear  Sir,"  interrupted  the  stranger,  with  a  peculiar 
sort  of  look,  in  which  animal  spirits  and  a  sense  of  the  ridiculous 
seemed  predominant  —  "  I  can  wait  —  I  can  wait." 

"  Can  wait.  Sir?" 

"  Yes,  Sir,  I  know  what  ybu  mean :  you  have  a  sort  of  liberal 
yearning,  which  incites  you  to  make  me  an  acknowledgment  for 
the  little  piece  of  service  I  was  enabled  to  render  you.  But  I  am 
not  poor.  Sir ;  and  indeed  should  decline  such  a  thing  from  any  but 
a  man  of  fortune,  and  upon  any  other  score  than  that  of  reliev- 
ing his  own  feelings  ;  so  that  I  can  very  easily  wait,  you  know,  for 
an  opportunity  more  convenient  to  you ;  when  I  shall  certainly  not 
hesitate  to  accept  a  trifle  or  so, — a  brilliant — or  a  diamond  seal,—- or 
any  little  thing  of  that  sort." 

"  Bless  me.  Sir,  you  are  vfery  good.  But  you  see.  Sir,  you — you — 
see — I  am  very  sorry.  Sir,  but  no  doubt — in  the  fashionable  circles, 
•—but  at  present,  I  have  an  engagement." 

"  Ah,  Sir,"  said  the  stranger  with  a  careless  air,  and  giving  him 
a  thump  on  the  shoulder  which  made  him  jump — "  pray  do  not  let 
me  interrupt  you.  I  only  hope  you  are  not  lodging  in — in — what's 
the  name  of  the  street?" 

"  North  Street? — I  tried  the  Steyne,  but — " 

"  Ah,  North  Street." 

''^ Why  so.  Sir,  pray?"  asked  the  other,  with  an  air  of  increasing 
fidget  and  alarm,  and  looking  about  him. 

"  Why,  Sir,  an  accident  has  just  happened  there." 

"  An  accident !  Oh  my  dear  Sir,  you  know  those  sort  of  things 
cannot  be  helped." 

"  No,  Sir,  but  it's  a  very  awkward  sort  of  accident,  and  the 
lodger,  I  understand,  is  from  home." 

"  How,  Sir, — ^what  lodger, — what  accident,  ^vhat  is  it  you  mean, 
dear  Sir  ?" 

''  Why,  look  there,  my  good  friend — look  there  j — there  they  are, 
removing  them — removing  the  goods  : — a  fire  has  broken  out." 

Kennedy  seemed  petrified.  There  was  a  great  crowd  in  the  street 
to  which  the  stranger  pointed,  occasioned  by  a  scuffle  with  a  puppet- 
show  man.  The  bqys  were  shouting,  and  the  little  moveable  Punch 
theatre  tumbled  about  in  the  top  of  the  fray,  looking  in  the  distance, 
like  a  piece  of  a  bedstead,  or  some  other  sort  of  goods. 

''There  they  are — "  continued  the  stranger,  '*  now  they  take  away 
the  bedstead, — now  they  bring  the  engines, — now  they  are  convey- 
ing out  something  else, — the  smoke — don't  you  see  the  smoke  !" 

"  O  lord,  I  do,  I  do,"  exclaimed  the  miser,  wh©  saw  nothing  but 
his  own  imagination,  and  his  boxes  of  brillianls  carried  off.  He 
turned  deadly  pale,  tbeaa  red,  then  pale  ggain,  and  seeming  to  sum- 


30  THE  INDICATOR, 

mon  up  a  convulsive  strength,  sprang  off  witb  all  his  mighty  and 
rushed  across  the  Steyne  like  a  madman. 

When  he  arrived  at  his  lodging  he  found  the  street  empty,  and  the 
house  quite  cool,  and  being  anxious  to  make  the  best  and  quicke&t  of 
his  story  with  his  mistress  and  her  father,  went  there  as  instantly  as 
possible  :  but  first,  in  a  great  hurry,  he  borrowed  a  hat  of  his  landlord, 
who  half  in  haste  also,  and  half  in  joke,  gave  him  one  of  his  coal- 
meter's,  which  he  unconsciously  put  on. 

Scarcely  had  he  astonished  the  young  lady,  and  set  his  foot  again 
out  of  doors,  than  he  encountered  the  stranger  who  had  played  him 
the  joke.  His  first  impulse  was  to  be  very  angry,  but  he  wanted 
courage  to  complain  J  and  recollecting  his  first  adventure  with  his 
preserver,  would  have  passed  by  under  pretence  of  not  seeing  him. 
He  was  stopped  however  by  the  elbow.  "  My  dear  Sir,"  exclaimed 
the  stranger  with  his  old  smile,  "  I  rejoice  to  find  that  all  was  safe." 
''  Pray"  continued  he,  changing  his  aspect,  and  looking  grave  and 
earnest, — "  You  know  the  various  families  at  Brighton  5  — I  have 
found  just  now  that  there  is  one  here  which  will  save  me  a  journey 
to  London — the  name  is  Cameron — can  you  tell  me  where  they  live  ? 
There  is  a  person  of  the  name  of  Kennedy  also,  who  I  understand  is 
here  too ; — but  that  doesn't  signify  at  present ; — pray  teU  me  if  you 
know  where  the  Camerons  are." 

"  There,  there,  sir,"  answered  the  other,  almost  frightened  out  of 
his  wits,  and  anxious  to  get  away; — "  there,  two  or  three  doors  oflF." 

The  stranger  dropped  his  arm  in  an  instant,  and  in  an  instant 
knocked  at  the  door.  With  almost  as  much  speed  poor  Kennedy 
returned  to  his  lodging.  We  know  not  what  he  was  thinking  about ; 
but  he  surprised  the  landlord  with  his  exceeding  hurry  to  be 
gone ;  and  gone  he  would  have  been  much  sooner  than  he  was,  if  it 
had  not  been  for  a  dispute  about  a  bill,  which  he  was  in  the  midst  of 
contesting,  when  a  footman  came  from  the  Camerons,  requesting  his 
presence  immediately  upon  important  business. 

The  poor  miser's  mortifications  were  not  to  cease  by  the  way.  The 
footman,  upon  being  admitted  to  him,  turned  out  to  be  the  same 
person  who  was  riding  as  a  foot-boy  behind  the  young  gentleman, 
when  the  latter  came  up  to  help  him  out  of  the  water.  "  Good  God, 
sir,"  says  the  man,  who  had  something  of  his  master's  look  about  him, 
''  I  beg  your  pardon, — but  are  you  the  Mr.  Kennedy  Avho  has  got 
my  master's  fortune  ?"  The  other  had  been  agitated  already  3  but 
the  whole  truth  seemed  now  to  come  upon  him  as  fast,  as  if  it  would 
squeeze  the  breath  out  of  his  hody ;  and  muttering  a  few  indistinct 
words,  he  motioned  to  the  footman  that  he  would  go  with  him.  He 
then  looked  about  in  a  bewildered  manner  for  his  hat,  and  taking  up 
the  coal-heaver's,  which  in  spite  of  some  other  feelings,  made  tlie 
footman  turn  aside  to  hold  his  own  to  his.  mouth,  he  dropped  it  down 
again,  and  turning  as  pale  as  a  sheet,  fell  back  into  a  chair. 

The  footman,  after  administering  a  glass  of  water,  called  up  the 
landlord ;  and  begging  him,  in  a  respectful  manner,  to  take  care  of  the 


THE  INDICATOR.  Si 

gentleman,  to  whom  he  would  fetch  his  master,  hastened  back  to 
inform  the  latter,  who,  comparing  the  accounts  of  his  old  acquaintance 
with  the  Camerons,  had  already  guessed  the  secret,  to  the  great 
wondering  of  all  parties.. 

You  have  doubtless  been  guessing  with  him  5  and  it  is  easy  to  fancy 
the  remainder.  There  had  been  a  false  return  of  the  young  soldier's 
death,  in  accounts  from  the  army  in  India.  He  had  been  taken  pri- 
soner, and  when  he  obtained  his  liberty,  learnt  with  great  grief  and 
surprise,  that  his  father  had  diAl  under  the  impression  that  he  was 
dead  also,  and  had  left  his  property  to  unknown  heirs.  The  property 
would  have  been  a  very  secondary  thing,  in  his  mind,  for  its  own  sake  j 
and  he  was  aware  he  could  regain  it ;  but  his  father's  death  afflicted 
him  much,  particularly  vmder  all  the  circumstances ;  and  he  felt  so 
much  anguish  at  the  thought  of  what  Miss  Cameron  must  suffer,  to 
whom  he  had  plighted  his  faith  but  two  years  before,  that  it  was  with 
difficulty  he  held  up  against  grief,  and  hurry,  and  a  burning  climate, 
so  as  not  to  fall  into  an  illness  ;  the  very  fear  of  which,  and  the  delay 
that  it  would  cause,  was  almost  enough  to  produce  it.  Not  to  men- 
tion that  it  was  possible  his  mistress  believing  him  dead,  might  too 
quickly  enter  into  engagements  with  another,  though  he  did  not  sup- 
pose it  very  likely.  But  we  need  not  dwell  upon  these  matters.  Hq 
found  his  mistress  the  same  as  ever ;  shed  sweet  bitter  tears  with 
her,  for  his  father,  his  own  supposed  loss,  and  her  grieving  constancy; 
and  regaining  his  fortune,  settled  an  income  upon  the  poor  miser, 
which  the  latter,  remembering  the  adventure  of  the  drowning,  could 
hardly  believe  possible. 


TO  THE  LARES 

ON   THE    COMMENCEMENT   OF   FIRES. 

Ye  little  household  fairies,  Fit  place  to  hed  and  board  ye. 

Called  anciently  the  Lares,  With  never  dust  or  smoking 

Who  on  my  study  shelf  there,  (That  acrimonious  choking!) 

Though  Venus  was  herself  there.  Bat  evergreens  and  berries. 

Slept  all  the  summer  hours.  And  all  the  best  which  there  is 

Beneath  your  little  bowers  Among  the  winter  flowers 

Of  glassy -watered  flowers; —  To  serve  ye  still  for  bowers ; 

Your  busy  time  is  come  now;  And  sticks  of  odorous  wood  to 

So  take  care,  all  and  some  now ;  Send  up  your  Godships  food  too  ; 

And  keep  my  hearth  in  order  And  some  divine  antique  too. 

Through  every  nook  and  border;  Which  ye  may  whisper  Greek  to; 

And  let  the  fire  burn  brightly  And  then  a  sea-shell  glistening. 

And  solidly  yet  lightly.  With  music  for  your  listening; 

With  just  a  little  clinking.  And  chimney-mounting  vapours 

To  soothe  me  while  I'm  thinking  ;  With  all  their  coils  and  capers. 

And  fit  for  glorious  poking.  Such  as  are  fit  for  chacing. 

In  case  a  friend  should  look  in.       _  When  ye  would  go  a  racing. 
So  may  your  shelf  afford  ye 


THE  INDICATOR. 


TOLERATION. 


The  world  has  afforded  some  melancholy  examples  of  great  and 
good  minds  rendered  intolerant  by  mistaking  dogmas  for  religion  : 
but  in  general,  a  man's  intolerance  is  in  proportion  to  his  want  of 
wisdom  and  natural  kindness.  It  is  only  an  extreme  evidence,  from 
whatever  cause  arising,  of  the  inability  to  bear  an  argument ;  whether 
from  conscious  tendency  to  doubt,  and  want  of  candour  or  courage  to 
acknowledge  it ;  or  from  a  fierce  e^tism  too  proud  to  be  differed 
with  i  or  from  the  callousness  of  mere  worldly  supereminence,  ready 
to  trample  down  every  thing  that  endangers  it's  authority,  or  shames 
it  with  it's  truth  J  or  lastly,  from  fright  and .  imbecility,  which  con- 
found mere  custom  with  every  species  of  security  and  good.  Ordinary 
intolerance  generally  arises  from  the  first  or  the  last  of  these  causes. 
Dr.  Johnson,  who  longed  to  repose  in  the  bosom  of  an  infallible 
ehurch,  was  intolerant  from  the  united  influence  of  doubt  rendered 
melanchply  by  disease.  But  his  intolerance  lay  chiefly  in  discourse. 
He  had  a  great  deal  of  real  charity  and  goodness,  with  all  his 
dictatorial  manners.  Henry  the  8th  was  intolerant  from  a  ferocious 
aelf-love,  changing  his  own  opinion  as  he  pleased,  and  then  calling 
on  others  to  obey  the  new  ones  as  they  had  done  the  old.  Lastly, 
such  a  man  as  Bonner  appearis  to  have  been  intolerant  from  sheer 
hard-hearted  worldliness,  mixed  perhaps  with  an  impious  belief  that 
the  Supreme  Being  was  a  tyrant  after  the  fashion  of  Avorldly  tyrants, 
and  was  to  be  so  served  and  made  court  to.  But  toleration  has  been 
gradually  increasing  with  the  strength  of  opinion  and  the  press.  It 
is  pressed  upon  with  less  hardness  jpit  every  fresh  use  of  the  foot 
of  authority,  however  foolish  and  uncharitable  even  that  pressure 
may  be.  And  the  last  and  best  proof  of  it's  increase  (a  proof,  which 
ought  to  shame  all  it's  enemies)  is,  that  intolerance  itself  is  treated 
with  candour. 


Knowledge  of  the  World. — What  is  called. knowledge  of  ^the 
world  is  in  general  nothing  better  than  an  ignoraac^  of  nifte-te^atW 
of  the  creation.  . .      ■   .. 

Art  of  Writing. — One  of  the  arts  of  wHting,  at  least  as.  f^x 
as  the  communication  of  pleasure  is  concerned,  is  to  -wvite  with  en- 
joyment. He  whose  task  gives  himself  real  pleasure  for  it's  own  sake, 
unaceompanied  with  uneasy  thoughts  about  it's  success  ot  Avith  the 
mere  pride  of  authorship,  can  hardly  fail  in  communicating  some 
portion  of  his  pleasure  to  others,  if  it  be  only  from  their  witnessiilg' 
his  own  gladdened  face. 


[Persons  in  the  country,  who  wish  to  become  subscribers  t.o  this  publication,  should  Ojder  it  of  boofe-. 
sellers  who  send  weeltlyor  monthly  parcels  to  their  respective  places  of  residertei  Tlfe  delay  would 
be  of  little  consequence  witha  work  not  containing  any  thing  of  merely  temporary  interest.] 


Orders  received  by  the  Booksellers,  by  the  Newsmen,  and  bythfc-PubWshfer,  Joseph'  Appleyard, 

No.  19,  Catherine-street,  Strand.— Price  Twopenoew 

Printed  by  C.  H.  Beynell,  No.  45,  Broad-street,  GoId£ii-sqTiat«,  Lobdoh. 


THE    INDICATOR. 

There  is  a  bird  in  the  interior  of  Africa,  whose  Iiabits  would  rather  seem  to  belong  to  the  interior 
of  Fairy-land:  but  they  have  been  well  authenticated.    It  indicates  to  honey-hunters  where  the  nests 
of  wild  "bees  are  to  be  found.   It  calls  them  with  a  cheerful  cry,  which  they  answer ;  and  on  fliuling  itself 
recognized,  flies  and  hovers  over  a  hollow  tree  containing  the  honey.    AVhile  they  are  occupied  iii 
collecting  it,  the  bird  goes  to  a  little  distance,  where  he  observes  all  that  passes;  and  the  hunter^, 
when  they  have  helped  themselves,  take  care  to  leave  him  his  portion  of  the  food.— This  is   the 
CucuLus  Indicator  of  Linnaus,  otherwise  called  the  Moroc,  Bee  Cuckoo,  or  Honey  Bird. 
There  he  arriving  round  about  doth  flie. 
And  takes  survey  with  busie,  curious  eye : 
Now  this,  now  that,  he  tasteth  tenderly.— Spenser. 


No.  v.— WEDNESDAY,  NOVEMBER  10th,  1819. 


TO  ANY  ONE  WHOM  BAD  WEATHER  DEPRESSES. 

If  you  are  melancholy  for  the  first  time,  you  will  find  upon  a  little 
enquiry,  that  others  have  been  melancholy  many  times,  and  yet  are 
cheerful  now.  If  you  have  been  melancholy  many  times,  recollect 
that  you  have  got  over  all  those  times ;  and  try  if  you  cannot  find 
out  new  means  of  getting  over  them  better. 

Do  not  imagine  that  mind  alone  is  concerned  in  your  bad  spirits. 
'The  body  has  a  great  deal  to  do  with  these  matters.  The  mind  may 
undoubtedly  affect  the  body  5  but  the  body  also  affects  the  mind. 
There  is  a  mutual  re-action  between  them  j  and  by  lessening  it  on 
either  side,  you  diminish  the  pain  on  both. 

If  you  are  melancholy,  and  know  not  why,  be  assured  it  must 
arise  entirely  from  some  physical ,  weakness  3  and  do  your  best  to 
strengthen  yourself.  The  blood  of  a  melancholy  man  is  thick  and  slow. 
The  blood  of  a  lively  man  is  clear  and  quick.  Endeavour  therefore 
to  put  your  blood  in  motion.  Exei'cise  is  the  best  way  to  doit;  but 
you  may  also  help  yourself,  in  moderation,  with  wine,  or  other  ex- 
citements. Only  you  must  take  care  so  to  proportion  the  use  of  any 
artificial  stimulus,  that  it  may  not  render  the  blood  languid  by  over- 
exciting  it  at  first ;  and  that  jom  may  be  able  to  keep  up,  by  the  na- 
tural stimulus  only,  the  help  you  have  given  yourself  by  the  artificial. 
.  Regard  the  bad  weather,  as  somebody  has  advised  us  to  handle  the 
nettle.  In  proportion  as  you  are  delicate  with  it,  it  will  maki^  ypu 
feelj  but 

Grasp  it  like  a  man  of  mettle. 
And  the  rogue  obeys  you  well. 

Do  not  the  less  however,  on  that  account,  take  all  reasonable 
precaution  and  arms  against  it, — your  boots,  .&c.  against  wet  feet, 
arid  your  great  coat  or  umbrella  against  the  rain.  It  is  timidity  and 
flight,  which  are  to  be  deprecated,  not  proper  armour  for  the  battle. 
Tht  ftrst  will  lay  you  open  to  defeat,  on  the  Ipast  attack.  A  proper 
use  Of  th^  latter  will  only  keep  you  strong  for  it.  Plato  had  such. 
a  high  opinion  of  exercise,  that  he  said  it  was  a  cure  even  for  a 


34  THE  INDICATOR.     , 

wounded  conscience.  Nor  is  this  opinion  a  dangerous  one.  For 
there  is  no  system,  even  of  superstition,  however  severe  or  cruel  in 
other  mattei's,  that  does  not  allow  a  wounded  conscience  to  be  cura- 
ble by  some  means.  Nature  will  work  out  it's  rights  and  it's  kind- 
ness some  way  or  other,  through  the  worst  sophistications ;  and  this  is 
one  of  the  instances  in  which  she  seems  to  raise  herself  above  all 
-contingencies.  The  conscience  may  have  been  wounded  by  artificial 
or  by  real  guilt  j  but  then  she  will  tell  it  in  those  extremities,  that 
even  the  real  guilt  may  have  been  produced  by  circumstances.  It 
is  her  kindness  alone,  which  nothing  can  pull  down  from  it's  pre- 
dominance. 

See  fair  play  between  cares  and  pastimes.  Diminish  your  mere 
wants  as  much  as  possible,  whether  you  are  rich  or  poor :  for  the 
rich  man's  wants,  increasing  by  indulgence,  are  apt  to  outweigh 
even  the  abundance  of  his  means ;  and  the  poor  man's  diminution 
of  them  renders  his  means  the  greater.  Do  not  want  money,  for  in- 
stance, for  money^s  sake.  There  is  excitement  in  the  pursuit ;  but  it 
is  dashed  with  more  troubles  than  most  others,  and  gets  less  happi- 
ness at  last.  On  the  other  hand,  increase  all  your  natural  and  healthy 
enjoyments.  Cultivate  your  afternoon  fireside,  the  society  of  your 
friends,  the  company  of  agreeable  children,  music,  theatres,  amusing 
books,  an  urbane  and  generous  gallantry.  He  who  thinks  any 
innocent  pastime  foolish,  has  either  yet  to  grow  wiser  dr  is  past  it. 
In  the  one  case,  his  notion  of  being  childish  is  itself  a  childish  no- 
tion. In  the  other,  his  impoi'tance  is  of  so  feeble  and  hollow  a  cast, 
that  it  dare  not  move  for  fear  of  tumbling  to  pieces. 

A  friend  of  ours,  who  knows  as  well  as  any  man  how  to  unite 
industry  with  enjoyment,  has  set  an  excellent  example  to  those  who 
can  afford  the  leisure,  by  taking  two  Sabbaths  every  week  instead  of 
one} — not  Methodistical  Sabbaths,  but  days  of  rest  which  pay  true 
homage  to  the  Supreme  Being  by  enjoying  his  creation.  He  will 
be  gratified  at  reading  this  paragraph  on  his  second-Sunday  morning. 

One  of  the  best  pieces  of  advice  for  an  ailing  spirit  is  to  go  to 
no  sudden  extremes, — to  adopt  no  great  and  extreme  changes  in 
diet  or  other  habits.  They  may  make  a  man  look  very  great  and 
philosophic  to  his  own  mind ;  but  they  are  not  fit  for  a  nature,  to 
which  custom  has  been  truly  said  to  be  a  second  nature.  Dr.  Cheyne 
(as  we  remember  reading  on  a  stall)  may  tell  us  that  a  drowning 
man  cannot  too  quickly  get  himself  out  of  the  water:  but  the  ana- 
logy is  not  good.  If  the  water  has  become  a  second  habit,  he  might 
almost  as  well  say  that  a  fish  could  not  get  too  quickly  out  of  it. 

Upon  this  point.  Bacon  says  that  we  should  discontinue  what  we 
think  hurtful  by  little  and  little.  And  he  quotes  with  admiration 
the  advice  of  Celsus, — that  "  a  man  do  vary  and  interchange  con- 
traries, but  rather  with  an  inclination  to  the  more  benign  extreme." 
"  Use  fasting,"  he  says,  "  and  full  eatipg,  but  rather  full  eating; 
watching  and  sleep,  but  rather  sleep  ;  sitting  and  exercise,  but 
rather  exercise,  and  the  like ,  so  shall  nature  be  cherished,  and  yet 
taught  masteries," 


THE  INDICATOR.  35 

We  cannot  do  better  than  conclude  with  one  or  two  other  passages 
out  of  the  same  Essay^  full  of  his  usual  calm  wisdom.  "  If  you  fly 
physic  in  health  altogether,  it  will  be  too  strange  for  your  body  when 
you  need  it."  (He  means  that  a  general  state  of  health  should  not  make 
us  over-confident  and  contemptuous  of  physic  ;  but  that  we  should 
use  it  moderately  if  required,  that  it  may  not  be  too  strange  to  us 
when  required  most.)  "  If  yoa  make  it  too  ftimiliar,  it  will  have 
no  extraordinary  effect  when  sickness  cometh.  I  commend  rather 
some  diet  for  certain  seasons,  than  frequent  use  of  physic,  except  it 
be  grown  into  a  custom  :  for  those  diets  alter  the  body  more^  and 
trouble  it  less." 

"  As  for  the  passions  and  studies  of  the  mind,"  says  he,  "  avoid 
envy,  anxious  fears,  anger  fretting  inwards,  subtil  and  knotty  inqui- 
sitions, joys  and  exhilirations  in  excess,  sadness  not  communicated" 
(for  as  he  says  finely,  somewhere  else.  They  who  keep  their  griefs 
to  themselves,  are  "  cannibals  of  their  own  hearts.")  "  Entertain 
hopes;  mirth  rather  than  joy  3"  (that  is  to  say,  cheerfulness  rather 
than  what  we  call  boisterous  merriment)  ;  "  A'ariety  of  delights 
rather  than  surfeit  of  them  ;  wonder  and  admiration,  and  therefore 
novelties ;  studies  that  fill  the  mind  with  splendid  and  illustrious 
objectSj  as  histories,  fables,  and  contemplations  of  nature." 


CHARLES  BRANDON,  AND  MARY  QUEEN  OF  FRANCE. 

The  fortune  of  Charles  Brandon  was  remarkable.  He  was  an 
honest  man,  yet  the  favourite  of  a  despot.  He  was  brave,  hand- 
some, accomplished,  possessed  even  delicacy  of  sentiment ;  yet  he 
retained  his  favour  to  the  last.  He  even  had  the  perilous  honour  of 
being  beloved  by  the  despot's  sister,  without  having  the  least  claim 
to  it  by  birth  3  and  yet  instead  of  it's  destroying  them  both,  he  was 
allowed  to  be  her  husband. 

Charles  Brandon  was  the  son  of  Sir  William  Brandon,  whose  skull 
was  cleaved  at  Bosworth  by  Richard  the  Third,  while  bearing  the 
standard  of  the  Duke  of  Richmond.  Richard  dashed  at  the  standard, 
and  appears  to  have  been  thrown  from  his  horse  by  Sir  WUliam, 
whose  strength  and  courage  however  could  not  save  him  from  the 
angry  desperation  of  the  king. 

But  Time,  whose  wheeles  with  various  motion  runne, 

Repayes  this  service  fully  to  his  Sonne, 

Who  marries  Richmond's  daughter,  born  betweene  i 

Two  royal  parents,  and  endowed  a  queene.  , 

Sir  John  Beaumont's  Bosworth  Field. 

The  father's  fate  must  doubtless  have  had  it's  effect  in  securing  the  for- 
tunes of  the  son.  Young  Brandon,  we  believe,  grew  up  with  Henry 
the  Seventh's  children,  and  was  the  playmate  of  his  future  king  and 
bride.  The  prince,  as  he  increased  in  years,  seems  to  have  carried 
the  idea  of  Brandon  vnth  him  like  that  of  a  second  self  3  and  the 


36  THE  INDICATOR. 

princess,  whose  affection  was  not  hindered  from  becoming  personal 
by  any" thing  sisterly,  nor  on  the  other  hand  allowed  to  waste  itself 
in  too  equal  a  familiarity,  may  have  felt  a  double  impulse  given  to 
it  by  the  great  improbability  of  her  ever  being  suffered  to  become 
his  wife.  Royal  females  in  most  countries  have  certainly  none  of  the 
advantages  of  their  rank,  whatever  the  males  may  have.  Mary  was 
destined  to  taste  the  usual  bitterness  of  their  lot ;  but  she  was  amply 
repaid.  At  the  conclusion  of  the  war  with  France,  she  was  married 
to  the  old  king  Louis  the  Twelfth,  who  witnessed  from  a  couch  the 
exploits  of  her  future  husband  at  the  tournaments.  The  doings  of 
Charles  Brandon  that  time  were  long  remembered.  The  love  be- 
tween him  and  the  young  queen  was  suspected  by  the  French  courts 
and  he  had  just  seen  her  enter  Paris  in  the  midst  of  a  gorgeous 
procession,  like  Aurora  come  to  mairy  Tithonus.  He  dealt  his 
chivalry  about  him  accordingly  with  such  irresistible  vigour,  that 
the  Dauphin,  in  a  fit  of  jealousy,  secretly  introduced  into  the  contest 
a  huge  German,  who  was  thought  to  be  of  a  strength  incomparable. 
But  Brandon  grappled  with  him,  and  with  seeming  disdain  and 
detection  so  pummelled  him  about  the  head  with  the  hilt  of  his 
sword,  that  the  blood  burst  through  the  vizor.  Imagine  the  feelings 
of  the  queen,  when  he  cameand  made  her  an  offering  of  the  Ger- 
man's shield.  Drayton,  in  his  Heroical  Epistles,  we  know  not  on 
what  authority,  tells  us,  that  on  one  occasion  during  the  combats, 
perhaps  this  particular  one,  she  could  not  help  saying  out  loud, 
"  Hurt  not  my  sweet  Charles,"  or  words  to  that  effect.  He  then 
pleasantly  represents  her  as  doing  away  suspicion  by  falling  to  com- 
mendation of  the  Dauphin,  and  affecting  not  to  know  who  the  con- 
quering knight  was; — an  ignorance  not  very  probable;  but  the 
knights  sometimes  disguised  themselves  purposely. 

The  old  king  did  not  long  survive  his  festivities.  He  died  in  less 
than  three  months,  on  the  first  day  of  the  year  1515  3  and  Brandon, 
who  had  been  created  Duke  of  Suffolk  the  year  before,  re-appeared 
at  the  French  court,  with  letters  of  condolence,  and  more  persuasive 
looks.  The  royal  widow  vs^as  young,  beautiful,  and  rich;  and  it  was 
likely  that  her  hand  would  be  sought  by  many  princely  lovers  ;  but 
she  was  now  resolved  to  reward  herself  for  her  late  sacrifice,  and  in 
less  than  two  months  she  privately  married  her  first  love.  The 
queen,  says  a  homely  but  not  mean  poet  (Warner,  in  his  Albion's 
England)  thought  that  to  cast  too  many  doubts 

Were  oft  to  erre  no  lesse 
Than  to  be  rash  :  and  thus  no  doubt 

The  gentle  queen  did  guesse, 
'  That  seeing  this  or  that,  at  first 

Or  last,  had  likelyhood, 
A  man  so  much  a  uianly  man 

Were  dastardly  withstooiL 
Then  kisses  revelled  on  their  lips, 

To  cither's  equal  good. 

Henry  shewed  great  anger  at  first,  real  or  pretended ;  but  he  had 
not  then  been  pampered  into  unbearable  self-will  by  a  long  reign  of 


THE  INDICATOR.  37 

tyranny.     He  soon  forgave  his  sister  and  friend ;  and  they  were  pub- 
licly wedded  at  Greenwich  on  the  13th  of  May. 

It  was  during  the  festivities  on  this  occasion  (at  least  we  believe 
so,  for  we  have  not  the  chivalrous  Lord  Herbert's  life  of  Henry  the 
8th  by  us,  which  is  most  probably  the  authority  for  the  story  ;  and 
being  a  good  thing,  it  is  omitted,  as  usual,  by  his  historians)  that 
Charles  Brandon  gave  a  proof  of  the  fineness  of  his  nature,  equally 
just  towards  himself,  and  conciliating  towards  the  jealous.  He  ap- 
peared at  a  tournament  on  a  saddle-cloth,  made  half  of  frize  and  half 
of  cloth  of  gold,  and  with  a  motto  on  each  half.  One  of  the  mottos 
ran  thus :  — 

Cloth  of  frize,  be  not  too  bold, 
-  Though  thou  art  niatch'd  with  cloth  of  gold. 

The  other  : 

Cloth  of  gold,  do  not  despise, 

Though  thou  art  match'd  with  cloth  of  frize. 

It  is  this  beautiful  piece  of  sentiment  which  puts  a  heart  into  his 
history,  and  makes  it  worthy  remembering. 


ON  THE  HOUSEHOLD  GODS  OF  THE  ANCIENTS. 

The  Ancients  had  three  kinds  of  household  Gods, — the  Daimon 
(Daemon)  or  Genius,  the  Penates,  and  the  Lares.  The  first  was 
supposed  to  be  a  spirit  allotted  to  every  man  from  his  birth,  some  say 
with  a  companion;  and  that  one  of  them  was  a  suggester  of  good 
thoughts,  and  the  other  of  evil.  It  seems,  however,  that  the  Genius; 
was  a  personification  of  the  conscience,  or  rather  of  the  prevailing 
impulses  of  the  mind,  or  the  other  self  of  a  man ;  and  it  was  in  this 
sense  most  likely  that  Socrates  condescended  to  speak  of  his  well- 
known  Daemon,  Genius,  or  Familiar  Spirit,  who,  as  he  was  a  good 
man,  always  advised  him  to  a  good  end.  The  Genius  was  thought 
to  paint  ideas  upon  the  mind  in  as  lively  a  manner  as  if  in  a  look- 
ing-glass ;  upon  which  we  chose  which  of  them  to  adopt.  Spenser, 
a  most  learned  as  well  as  imaginative  poet,  describes  it  in  one  of  his 
most  comprehensive  though  not  most  poetical  stanzas,  as 

•  That  celestial  Powre,  to  whom  the  care 

Of  life,  and  generation  of  all 
That  lives,  pertaine  in  charge  particulare; 
Who  wondrous  things  concerning  our  welfare, 
And  straange  phantomes  doth  le'tt  us  ofte  foresee, 
Arrd  ofte  of  secret  ills  bids  us  beware : 
That  is  our  Selfe,  whom  though  we  do  not  see. 
Yet  each  doth  in  himsclfe  it  well  perceive  to  bee. 

Therefore  a  god  him  sage  antiquity 

Did  wisely  make. Faerie  Queene,  Book  2,  St.  47. 

Of  the  belief  in  an  Evil  Genius,  a  celebrated  example  is  furnished 
in  Plutarch's  account  of  Brutus's  vision,  of  which  Shakspeare  ha* 
given  so  fine  a  version  (Julius  Caesar,  Act  4,  Sc.  3.).     Beliefs  of  this 


38  THE  INDICATOR. 

kind  seem  traceable  from  one  superstition  to  another,  and  in  some 
instances  are  no  doubt  immediately  so.  But  fear,  and  ignorance, 
and  even  the  humility  of  knowledge  are  at  hand  to  furnish  them, 
where  precedent  is  wanting.  There  is  no  doubt  however,  that  the 
Romans,  who  copied  and  in  general  vulgarized  the  Greek  mytho- 
logy, took  their  Genius  from  the  Greek  Daimon :  and  as  the  Greek 
word  has  survived  and  taken  shape  in  the  common  word  Daemon, 
which  by  scornful  reference  to  the  Heathen  religion  came  at  last  to 
signify  a  Devil,  so  the  Latin  word  Genius,  not  having  been  used  by 
the  translators  of  the  Greek  Testament,  has  survived  with  a  better 
meaning,  and  is  employed  to  express  our  most  genial  and  intellectual 
faculties.  Such  and  such  a  man  is  said  to  indulge  his  genius  : — he 
has  a  genius  for  this  and  that  art : — he  has  a  noble  genius,  an  airy 
genius,  an  original  and  peculiar  genius.  And  as  the  Romans  from 
attributing  a  genius  to  every  man  at  his  birth,  came  to  attribute  one 
to  places  and  to  soils,  and  other  more  comprehensive  peculiarities, 
so  we  have  adopted  the  same  use  of  the  term  into  our  poetical 
phraseology.  We  speak  also  of  the  genius,  or  idiomatic  peculiarity, 
of  a  language.  One  of  the  most  curious  and  edifying  uses  of  the 
word  Genius  took  place  in  the  English  translation  of  the  French 
Arabian  Nights,  which  speaks  of  o\u'  old  friends  the  Genie  and  the 
Genies.  This  is  nothing  more  than  the  French  word  retained  from 
the  original  translator,  who  applied  the  Roman  word  Genius  to  the 
Arabian  Dive  or  Elf. 

One  of  the  stories  -with  which  Pausanias  has  enlivened  his  de- 
scription of  Greece,  is  relative  tO/a  Genius.  He  says  that  one  of 
the  companions  of  Ulysses  having  been  killed  by  the  people^  of 
Temesa,  they  were  fated  to  sacrifice  a  beautiful  virgin  every  year 
to  his  manes.  They  were  about  to  immolate  one  as  usual,  when 
Euthymus,  a  conqueror  in  the  Olympic  Games,  touched  with  pity 
at  her  fate  and  admiration  of  her  beauty,  fell  in  love  with  her,  and 
resolved  to  try  if  he  could  not  put  an  end  to  so  terrible  a  custom. 
He  accordingly  got  permission  from  the  state  to  marry  her,  provided 
he  could  rescue  her  from  her  dreadful  expectant.  He  armed  him- 
self, waited  in  the  temple, '  and  the  Genius  appeared.  It  was  said 
to  have  been  of  an  appalling  presence.  It's  shape  was  every  way 
formidable,  it's  colour  of  an  intense  black ;  and  it  was  girded  about 
with  a  wolf-skin.  But  Euthymus  fought  and  conquered  it  5  upon 
which  it  fled  madly,  not  only  beyond  the  walls,  but  the  utmost 
bounds  of  Temesa,  and  rushed  into  the  sea. 

The  Penates  were  Gods  of  the  house  and  family.  Collectively 
speaking,  they  also  presided  over  cities,  public  roads,  aad  at  last  over 
all  places  with  which  men  were  conversant.  Their  chief  government 
however  was  supposed  to  be  over  the  most  inner  and  secret  part 
of  the  house,  and  the  subsistence  and  welfare  of  it's  inmates.  They 
were  chosen  at  will  out  of  the  number  of  the  gods,  as  the  Roman  in 
modern  times  chose  his  favourite  saint.  In  fact,  they  were  only  the 
higher  gods  themselves,  descending  into  a  kind  of  household  famili- 
arity.  They  were  the  personification  of  a  particular  Providence.   The 


THE  INDICATOR.  39 

most  striking  mention  of  the  Penates  which  we  can  call  to  mind  is 
in  one  of  Virgil's  most  poetical  passages.  It  is  where  they  appear 
to  Mneas,  to  warn  him  from  Crete,  and  announce  his  destined  em- 
pire in  Italy.     (Book  3,  v.  147.) 

Nox  erat,  et  terris  animalia  somaus  habebat. 
Effigies  sacrse  div6m,  Phrygiique  Penates, 
Quos  meeum  a  Troja,  mediisque  ex  ignibis  urbis 
JExtuleram,  visi  ante  oculos  adstare  jacentis 
In  somnis,  multo  manifesti  luraine,  qua  se     . 
Plena  per  insertas  fundebat  luna  fenestras. 

'Twas  night;  and  sleep  was  on  all  living  things. 
I  lay,  and  saw  before  my  very  eyes 
Dread  shapes  of  gods,  and  Phrygian -deities, 
The  great  Penates ;  whom  with  reverent  joy 
I  bore  from  out  the  heart  of  burning  Troy. 
•Plainly  I  saw  thera,  standing  in  the  light 
Which  the  moon  poured  into  the  room  that  night. 

And  again,  after  they  had  addressed  him, — 

Nee  sopor  illud  erat;  sed  coram  agnoscere  vultus, 
Velatasque  comas,  prassentiaque  ora  videbar: 
Turn  gelidus  toto  manahat  corpora  sudor. 

It  was  no  dream :  I  saw  them  face  to  face, 
Their  hooded  hair ;  and  felt  them  so  before 
My  being,  that  I  burst  at  every  pore. 

The  LareSj  or  Lars,  were  the  lesser  and  most  familiar  household 
gods ;  and  though  their  offices  were  afterwards  extended  a  good  deal, 
in  the  same  way  as  those  of  the  Penates,  with  whom  they  are  often 
wrongly  confounded,  their  principal  sphere  was  the  fire-place.  This 
was  in  the  middle  of  the  room ;  and  the  statues  of  the  Lares  generally 
stood  about  it  in  little  niches.  They  are  said  to  have  been  in  the 
shape  of  monkies ;  more  likely  mannikins,  or  rude  little  human  im- 
ages. Some  were  made  of  wax,  some  of  stone,  and  others  doubtless 
of  any  material  for  sculpture.  They  were  represented  with  good- 
natured  grinning  countenances,  were  clothed  in  skins,  and  had  little 
dogs  at  their  feet.  Some  writers  make  them  the  offspring  of  the 
goddess  Mania,  who  presided  over  the  spirits  of  the  dead ;  and  sup- 
pose that  originally  they  were  the  same  as  those  spirits  ;  which  is  a 
very  probable  as  well  as  agreeable  superstition,  the  old  nations  of 
Italy  having  been  accustomed  to  bury  their  dead  in  their  houses. 
Upon  this  supposition,  the  good  or  "benevolent  spirits  were  called 
Familiar  Lares,  and  the  evil  or  malignant  ones  Larvaj  and  Lemures. 
Thus  Milton,  in  his  awful  Hymn  on  the  Nativity : — 

In  consecrated  earth. 
And  on  the  holy  hearth. 

The  Lars, and  Lemures  moan  with  midnight  plaint. 
In  urns  and  altars  round, 
1  A  drear  and  dying  sound 

Affrights  the  Flamens  at  their  service  quaint; 

And  the  chill  marble  seems  to  sweat. 

While  each  peculiar  Power  foregoes  his  wanted  seat. 

But  Ovid  tells  a  story  of  a  gossiping  nymph  Lara,  who  having 
told  Juno  of  her  husband's  amour  with  Juturna,  was  "  sent  to  hell" 


40  THE  INDICATOR. 

by  him,  and  courted  by  Mercury  on  the  road 3  the  consequence  of 
which  was  the  birth  of  the  Lares.  Tliis  seems  to  have  a  natural 
reference  enough  to  the  gossiping  over  fire-places. 

It  is  impossible  not  to  be  struck  with  the  resemblance  between 
these  lesser  household  gods  and  some  of  the  offices  of  our  old  English 
elves  and  fairies.  But  of  them^  more  by  and  by.  Dacier,  in  a  note 
upon  Horace  (Book  1,  Od.  12.)  informs  us,  that  in  some  parts  of 
Languedoc,  in  his  time,  the  fire-place  was  still  called  the  Larj  and 
that  the  name  was  also  given  to  houses. 

Heriick,  an  excellent  poet  of  the  Apacreontic  order  in  the  time  of 
Elizabeth,  whose  works  we  shall  often'have  occasion  to  recommend 
to  the  reader,  and  who  was  visited  perhaps  more  than  any  poet  that 
ever  lived  with  a  sense  of  the  pleasantest  parts  of  the  cheerful  my- 
thology of  the  ancients,  has  written  some  of  his  lively  little  odes  upon 
.the  Lares.  We  have  not  them  by  us  at  this  moment,  but  we  re- 
member one  beginning, — 

It  was,  aud  still  my  care  is, 

To  worship  you,  the  Lares. 

We  take  the  opportunity  of  the  Lars'  being  mentioned  in  it,  to 
indulge  ourselves,  and  we  hope  our  readers,  in  a  little  poem  of  Mar- 
tial's, very  charming  for  it's  simplicity.  It  is  an  Epitaph  on  a  child 
of  the  name  of  Erotion. 

Hie  festinata  requiescit  Erotion  umbra, 

Criraine  quam  fati  sexta  peremit  hiems. 

<2uisquis  eris  nostri  post  me  rejnator  agelli, 

Manibus  exiguis  annua  justa  dato. 
Sic  Lare  perpetuo,  sic  turba  sospite,  solus 

Flebilis  in  terra  sit  lapis  iste  tua, 

THE  EPITAPH   OF  EROTION. 

Uuderneath  this  greedy  stone. 

Lies  little  sweet  Erotion ; 

Whom  the  fates,  with  hearts  as  cold. 

Nipt  away  at  six  years  old. 

Thou,  whoever  thou  mayst  be, 

That  hast  this  small  field  after  me, 

Let  the  yearly  rites  be  paid 

To  her  little  slender  shade  ; 

So  shall  no  disease  or  jar 

Hurt  thy  house,  or  chill  thy  Lar; 

But  this  tomb  here  be  alone, 

The  only  melancholy  stone. 


We  umleistand  that  many  of  our  readers  mistook  the  story  of  tlie  Bean  Miser  ib  our  last  number 
for  a  true  one,  or  at  least  for  one  founded  on  fact.  We  wish  to  correct  this  mistaice;  and  shall 
niiike  a  point  hereaftei-  of  ^o  wording  any  thing  we  write  in  the  shape  of  a  narrative,  that  a  mere 
fiction  shall  not  be  confounded  with  our  personal  expedience,  for  we  would  keep  the  truth  of  oar 
testimony  undisputed.— Tlie  fact  is,  that  the  story  was  originally  intended  to  be  one  of  a  series  told 
by  an  imaginary  set  of  persons,  after  thefasliiou  of  the  Decameron;  and  the  manner  of  it  became 
modified  accoitlingly. 

Tlie  first  number  of  the  iNPxcATon  is  being  re-printed,  and  will  be  ready  in  a  few  days. 

Persons  in  the  country,  who  wish  to  become  subscribers  to  this  publication,  should  order  it  of  book- 
sellers who  send  weekly  or  monthly  parcels  to  their  respective  places  of  resideace.  The  delay  would 
be  of  little  consequeace  with  a  wojk  not  containing  any  thing  of  merely  temporary  interest. 


Orders  received  by  the  Booksellers,  by  the  Newsmen,  and  by  the  Publisher,  Joseph  Appleyard, 

No.  19,  Catherine-street,  Strand.— Price  Twopence. 

Printed  by  C.  H.  Ueynell,  No.  45,  Uroad-street,  Goldeu-bquare,  Lonil.ou. 


THE    INDICATOR.' 

There  is  a  bird  in  the  interior  of  Africa,  whose  habits  would  rather  seem  to  belong  to  the  interior 
K>{  Fairy-land :  but  they  have  been  well  authenticated.  It  indicates  to  honey-hunters  where  the  nests 
of  wild  bees  are  to  be  found  It  calls  them  with  a  cheerful  cry,  which  they  answer;  and  on  finding  itself 
recognized,  flies  and  hovers  over  a  hollow  tree  containing  the  honey.  While  they  are  occupied  in 
collecting  it,  the  bird  goes  to  a  little  distance,  where  he  observes  all  that  passes;  and  the  hunters, 
"When  they  have  helped  themselves,  take  care  to  leave  him  his  portion  of  the  food. — ^This  is  the 
Ccci/Lus  Indicator  of  Linnaeus,  otherwise  called  the  Moroc,  Bee  Cuckoo,  or  Honey  Bird. 

There  he  arriving  round  about  doth  Hie, 

And  takes  survey  with  busie,  curious  eye: 

Now  this,  now  that,  he  tasteth  tenderly.— Spenser. 


No.  VI.— WEDNESDAY,  NOVEMBER  17th,  1819. 


SOCIAL    GENEALOGV. 


It  is  a  curious  and  pleasant  thing  to  consider,  that  a  link  of  per*- 
sonal  acquaintance  can  be  traced  up  from  the  authors  of  our  own 
times  to  those  of  Shakspeare,  and  to  Shakspeare  himself.  Ovid,  in 
recording  with  fondness  his  intimacy  with  Propertius  and  Horace, 
regrets  that  he  had  only  seen  Virgil.  (Trist.  Book  4.  v.  51.)  But 
still  he  thinks  the  sight  of  him  worth  remembering.  -And  Pope,  when 
a  child,  prevailed  on  some  friends  to  take  him  to  a  coffee'house  which 
Dryden  frequented,  merely  to  look  at  him ;  which  he  did,  to  his 
great  satisfaction.  Now  such  of  us  as  have  shaken  hands  with  a 
living  poet,  might  be  able  perhaps  to  reckon  up  a  series  of  connect- 
ing shakes  to  the  very  hand  that  wrote  of  Hamlet,  and  of  Falstaff, 
and  of  Desdemona. 

With  some  living  poets,  it  is  certain.  There  is  Thomas  Moore, 
for  instance,  who  knew  Sheridan.  Sheridan  knew  Johnson,  who 
was  the  friend  of  Savage,  who  knew  Steele,  who  knew  Pope.  Pope 
was  intimate  with  Congreve,  and  Congreve  with  Dryden.  Dryden 
is  said  to  have  visited  Milton.  Milton  is  said  to  have  known 
Davenantj  and  to  have  been  saved  by  him  from  the  revenge  of  the 
restored  court,  in  return  for  having  saved  Davenant  from  the  revenge 
of  the  Commonwealth.  But  if  the  link  between  Dryden  and  Milton, 
and  Milton  and  Davenant  is  somewhat  apocryphal,  or  rather  depen- 
dent on  tradition  (for  Richardson  the  painter  tells  us  the  latter  from 
Pope,  who  had  it  from  Betterton  the  actor,  one  of  Davenant's  com- 
pany), it  may  be  carried  at  once  from  Dryden  to  Davenant,  with 
whom  he  was  unquestionably  intimate.  Davenar\t  then  knew  Hobbes, 
who  knew  Bacon,  who  knew  Ben  Jonson,  who  was  intimate  with 
Beaumont  and  Fletcher,  Chapman,  Donne,  Drayton,  Camden,  Sel- 
den.  Clarendon,  Sydney,  Raleigh,  and  perhaps  all  the  great  men  of 
Elizabeth's  and  James's  time,  the  greatest  of  them  all  undoubtedly. 
Thus  have  we  a  link  of  "beamy  hands"  from  our  own  times  up  to 
Shakspeare, 


42  THE  INDICATOR. 

In  this  friendly  genealogy  we  have  omitted  the  numerous  side- 
branches,  or  common  friendships ;  but  of  those  we  shall  give  an 
account  by  and  by.  It  may  be  mentioned  however,  in  order  not  to 
omit  Spenser,  that  Davenant  resided  some  time  in  the  family  of 
Sir  Fulke  Greville  Lord  Brooke,  the  Friend  of  Sir  Philip  Sydney. 
Spenser's  intimacy  with  Sydney  is  mentioned  by  himself,  in  a  letter, 
st^l  extant,  to  Gabriel  Harvey. 

^.  We  will  now  give  the  authorities  for  our  intellectual  pedigree. 
Sheridan  is  mentioned  in  Boswell  as  being  admitted  to  the  cele- 
brated club,  of  which  Johnson,  Goldsmith,  and  others  were  members. 
He  had  then,  if  we  remember,  just  written  his  School  for  Scandal, 
which  made  him  the  more  welcome.  Of  Johnson's  friendship  with 
Savage  (we  cannot  help  beginning  the  sentence  Avith  his  favourite 
leading  preposition),  the  well-known  Life  is  an  interesting  and 
honourable  record.  It  is  said  that  in  the  commencement  of  their 
friendship,  they  have  sometimes  wandered  together  about  London  for 
want  of  a  lodging ; — more  likely,  for  Savage's  want  of  it,  and  John- 
son's fear  of  offending  him  by  offering  a  share  of  his  own-  But  we 
do  not-  remember  how  this  circumstance  is  related  by  Boswell. 

Savage's  intimacy  with  Steele  is  recorded  in  a  pleasant  anecdote, 
which  he  told  Johnson.  Sir  Richard  once  desired  him,  "  with  an 
air  of  the  utmost  importance,"  says  his  biographer,  "  to  come  very 
early  to  his  house  the  next  morning.  Mr.  Savage  came  as  he  had 
promised,  found  the  chariot  at  the  door,  and  Sir  Richard  waiting  for 
him,  and  ready  to  go  out.  What  was  intended,  and  whither  they 
were  to  go.  Savage  could  not  conjecture,  and  was  not  willing  to 
enquire;  but  immediately  seated  himself  with  Sir  Richard.  The 
coachman  was  ordered  to  drive,  and  they  hurried  with  the  utmost 
expedition  to  Hyde-Park  Corner,  where  they  stopped  at  a  petty 
tavern,  and  retired  to  a  private  room.  Sir  Richard  then  informed 
him  that  he  intended  to  publish  a  pamphlet,  and  that  he  had  desired 
him  to  come  thither  that  he  might  write  for  him.  They  soon  sat 
down  to  the  work.  Sir  Richard  dictated,  and  Savage  wrote,  till  the 
dinner  that  had  been  ordered  was  put  upon  the  table.  Savage  was 
surprised  at  the  meanness  of  the  entertainment,  and  after  some  hesi- 
tation ventured  to  ask  for  wine,  which  Sir  Richard,  not  without 
reluctance,  ordered  to  be  brought.  They  then  finished  their  dinner, 
and  proceeded  in  their  pamphlet,  which  they  concluded  in  the  after- 
noon. 

"  Mr.  Savage  then  imagined  that  his  task  was  over,  and  expected 
that  Sir  Richard  would  call  for  the  reckoning,  and  return  home ; 
but  his  expectations  deceived  him, .  for  Sir  Richard  told  him  that  he 
was  without  money,  and  that  the  pamphlet  must  be  sold  before  the 
dinner  could  be  paid  for,  and  Savage  was  therefore  obliged  to  go  and 
offer  their  new  jiroduction  for  sale  for  two  guineas,  which  with  some 
difficulty  he  obtained.  Sir  Richard  then  returned  home,  ha^dng 
retired  that  day  only  to  avoid  his  creditors,  and  composed  the 
pamphlet  only  to  discharge  his  reckoning." 

Steele's  acquaintance  with  Pope,  who  wrote  some  papers  for  his 


THE  INDICATOR,  43 

Guardian  J  appears  in  the  letters  Snd  other  works  of  the  wits  of  that 
time.  Johnson  supposes  that  it  was  his  friendly  interference,  which 
attempted  to  bring  Pope  and  Addison  together  after  a  jealous  separa- 
tion. Pope's  friendship  with  Congreve  appears  also  in  his  letters. 
He  also  dedicated  the  Iliad  to  him,  over  the  heads  of  peers  and 
patrons.  Congreve,  whose  conversation  most  likely  partook  of  the 
elegance  and  wit  of  his  writings,  and  whose  manners  appear  to  have 
rendered  him  an  universal  favourite,  had  the  honour  in  his  youth  of 
attracting  singular  respect  and  regard  from  Dryden.  He  was  pub- 
licly hailed  by  him  as  his  successor,  and  affectionately  bequeathed  the 
care  of  his  laurels.  Dryden  did  not  know  who  had  been  looking  at 
him  in  the  coffee-house. 

Already  I  am  worn  with  cares  and  age, 
And  just  abandoning  th'  ungrateful  stage  ; 
Unprofitably  kept  at  Heaven's  expense, 
I  live  a  rent-charge  on  his  providence. 
But  you,  whom  every  Muse  and  Grace  adorn. 
Whom  I  foresee  to  better  fortune  born. 
Be  kind  to  my  remains  ;  and  O  defend, 
Against  your  judgment,  your  departed  friend ! 
Let  not  th'  insulting  foe  my  fame  pursue, 
But  shade  those  laurels  which  descend  to  you. 

Congreve  did  so  with  great  tenderness. 

Dryden  is  reported  to  liave  asked  Milton's  permission  to  turn  his 
Paradise  Lost  into  a  rhyming  tragedy,  which  he  called  the  State  of 
Innocence,  or  the  Fall  of  Man  j  a  work,  such  as  might  be  expected 
from  such  a  mode  of  alteration.  The  venerable  poet  is  said  to  have 
answered,  "  Ay,  young  man,  you  may  tag  my  verses,  if  you  will." 
Be  the  connection,  however,  of  Dryden  vdth  Milton,  or  of  Milton 
with  Davenant  as  it  may,  Dryden  wrote  the  alteration  of  Shakspeare  s 
Tempest,  as  it  is  now  perpetrated,  in  conjunction  with  Davenant. 
They  were  great  hands,  but  they  should  not  have  touched  the  pure 
grandeur  of  Shakspeare.  The  intimacy  of  Davenant  with  Hobbes  is 
to  t)e  seen  by  their  correspondence  prefixed  to  Gondibert.  Hobbes 
was  at  one  time  secretary  to  Lord  Bacon,  a  singularly  illustrious 
instance  of  servant  and  master.  Bacon  is  also  supposed  to  have  had 
Ben  Jonson  for  a  retainer  in  some  capacity ;  but  it  is  certain  that 
Jonson  had  his  acquaintance,  for  he  records  it  in  his  Discoveries. 
And  had  it  been  otherwise,  his  link  with  the  preceding  writers  could 
be  easily  supplied  through  the  medium  of  Greville  and  Sydney,  and 
indeed  of  many  others  of  his  contemporaries.  Here  then  we  arrive 
at  Shakspeare,  and  feel  the  electric  virtue  of  his  hand.  Their  inti- 
macy, dashed  a  little,  perhaps,  with  jealousy  on  the  part  of  Jonson, 
but  maintained  to  the  last  by  dint  of  the  nobler  part  of  him  and  of 
Shakspeare's  irresistible  fineness  of  nature,  is  a  thing  as  notorious  as 
their  fame.  Fuller  says,  "  Many  were  the  wit-combates  betwixt 
(Shakspeare)  and  Ben  Johnson,  which  two  I  behold  like  a  Spanish 
great  gaUion  and  an  English  man  of  war  :  Master  Johnson  (like  the 
former)  was  built  far  higher  in  learning  :  solid,  but  slow  in  his  per- 
formances. Shakspeare^  with  the  English  man  of  war,  lesser  in  bulk. 


44  THE  INDICATOR. 

but  lighter  in  sailing,  could  turn  with  all  tides,  tack  about,  and  take 
advantage  of  all  winds,  by  the  quickness  of  his  wit  and  invention." 
This  is  a  happy  simile,  with  the  exception  of  what  is  insinuated  about 
Jonson's  greater  solidity.  But  let  Jonson  shew  for  himself  the  affec- 
tion, with  which  he  regarded  one,  who  did  not  irritate  or  trample 
down  rivalry^  but  rose  above  it  like  the  quiet  and  all-gladdening  sun, 
and  turned  emulation  to  worship. 

Soul  of  the  age  ! 
Th'  applause  !  delight !  the  wonder  of  our  stage  ! 
My  Shakspeare,  rise  !  I  will  not  lodge  thee  by 
Chaucer  or  Spenser,  or  bid  Beaumont  lie 
A  little  further,  to  make  thee  a  room  ; 
Thou  art  a  monument  without  a  tomb  ; 
And  art  alive  still,  while  thy  book  doth  live. 
And  we  have  wits  to  read,  and  praise  to  give. 

He  was  not  of  an  age,  but  for  all  time. 


ANGLING. 


'  The  anglers  are  a  race  of  men  who  puzzle  us.  We  do  not 
mean  for  their  patience,  which  is  laudable ;  nor  for  the  infinite  non- 
success  of  some  of  them,  which  is  desirable.  Neither  do  we  agree 
with  the  good  joke  attributed  to  Swift,  that  angling  is  always  to  be 
considered  as  "  a  stick  and  a  string,  with  a  fly  at  one  end  and  a  fool 
at  the  other."  Nay,  if  he  had  books  with  him  and  a  pleasant  day, 
we  can  even  account  for  the  joyousness  of  that  prince  of  all  punters, 
who  having  been  seen  in  the  same  identical  spot  one  morning  and 
evening,  and  asked  both  times  whether  he  had  had  any  success,  said 
No ;  but  in  the  course  of  the  day,  he  had  had  "  a  glorious  nibble." 

But  the  anglers  boast  of  the  innocence  of  their  pastime  j  yet  it 
puts  fellow-cfeatures  to  the  torture.  They  pique  themselves  on  their 
meditative  faculties}  and  yet  their  only  excuse  is  a  want  of  thought. 
It  is  this  that  puzzles  us.  Old  Isaac  Walton,  their  patriarch,  speak- 
ing of  his  inquisitorial  abstractions  on  the  banks  of  a  river,  says. 

Here  we  may 
Think  and  pray. 
Before  death 
Stops  our  breath. 
Other  joys 
Are  but  toys. 
And  to  be  lameated. 

So  saying,  he  *' stops  the  breath  "  of  a  trout,  by  plucking  him  up 
into  an  element  too  thin  to  respire,  with  a  hook  and  a  tortured  worm 
in  his  jaws. 

Other  joys 
'  Are  but  toys. 

•    If  you  ride,  walk,  or  skate,  or  play  at  cricket,  or  at  rackets,  or  enjoy 


THE  INDICATOR.  4^- 

a  ball  or  a  concert,  it  is  "  to  be  lamented."  To  put  pleasure  into 
the  faces  of  half  a  dozen  agreeable  women,  is  a  toy  unworthy  of  the 
manliness  of  a  worm-sticker.  But  to  put  a  hook  into  the  gills  of  a 
carp, — there  you  attain  the  end  of  a  reasonable  being ;  there  you 
shew  yourself  truly  a  lord  of  the  creation.  To  plant  your  feet  occa- 
sionally in  the  mud,  is  also  a  pleasing  step.  So  is  cutting  your 
ancles  with  weeds  and  stones. 

Other  joys 
Are  but  toys. 

The  book  of  Isaac  Walton  upon  angling  is  undoubtedly  a  de- 
lightful performance  in  some  respects.  It  smells  of  the  country  air, 
and  of  the  flowers  in  cottage  windows.  Its  pictures  of  rural  scenery, 
its  simplicity,  its  snatches  of  old  songs,  are  all  good  and  refreshing ; 
and  his  prodigious  rehshof  a  dressed  fish  would  not  be  grudged  him, 
if  he  had  killed  it  a  little  more  decently.  He  really  seems  to  have  a 
respect  for  a  piece  of  salmon  ;  to  approach  it,  like  the  grace,  with 
his  hat  off.  But  what  are  we  to  think  of  a  man,  who  in  the  midst  of 
his  tortui'es  of  other  animals,  is  always  valuing  himself  on  his  won- 
derful harmlessness  ;  and  who  actually  follows  up  one  of  his  most 
complacent  passages  of  this  kind  with  an  injunction  to  impale  a  cer- 
tain worm  tmce  upon  the  hook,  because  it  is  lively,  and  might  get 
off?  "  All  that  can  be  said  of  such  an  extraordinary  inconsistency  is, 
that  having  been  bred  up  in  an  opinion  of  the  innocence  of  his 
amusement,  and  possessing  a  healthy  power  of  exercising  voluntaiy 
thoughts  (as  far  as  he  had  any),  he  must  have  dozed  over  the  oppo- 
site side  of  the  question,  so  as  to  become  almost,  perhaps  quite  in- 
sensible to  it.  And  angling  does  indeed  seem  the  next  thing  to 
dreaming.  It  dispenses  with  loco-motion,  reconciles  contradictions, 
and  renders  the  very  countenance  null  and  void.  A  friend  of  ours, 
who  is  an  admirer  of  Walton,  was  struck,  just  as  we  were,  with  the 
likeness  of  the  old  angler's  face  to  a  fish.  It  is  hard,  angular,  and  of 
no  expression.  It  seems  to  have  been  "  subdued  to  what  it  worked 
in )  "  to  have  become  native  to  the  watery  element.  One  might 
have  said  to  Walton,  "  Oh  flesh,  how  art  thou  fishified  !  "  He  looks 
like  a  pike,  dressed  in  broad  cloth  instead  of  butter. 

The  face  of  his  pupil  and  follower,  or  as  he  fondly  called  himself, 
son,  Charles  Cotton,  a  poet  and  a  man  of  wit,  is  more  good-natured 
and  uneasy.*  Cotton's  pleasures  had  not  been  confined  to  fishing. 
His  sympathies  indeed  had  been  a  little  superabundant  ,•  and  left 
him  perhaps  not  so  great  a  power  of  thinking  as  he  pleased.  Ac- 
cordingly, we  find  more  symptoms  of  scrupulousness  upon  the  sub- 
ject of  angling  in  his  writings,  than  in  those  qf  his  father. 

Walton  says,  that  an  angler  does  no  hurt  but  to  fish  ;  and  this  he 
counts  as  nothing.  Cotton  argues,  that  the  slaughter  of  them  is  not 
to  be  "  repented  j  "  and  he  says  to  his  father  (which  looks  as  if  the 
old  gentleman  sometimes  thought  upon  the  subject  too) 

•  *  The  reader  may  see  both  the  portraits  in  the  late  editions  of  Walton. 


^  THE  INDICATOR. 

There  whilst  behind  some  bush  we  wait 

Xhe  scaly  people  to  betray, 
We'll  prove  it  just  with  treacherous  bait 

To  make  the  preying  tiout  our  prey. 

This  argument,  and  another  about  fish's  being  made  for  "  man's 
pleasure  and  diet,"  are  all  that  anglers  have  to  say  for  the  inno- 
cence of  their  sport.  But  they  are  both  as  rank  sophistications  as 
can  be  ;  mere  beggings  of  the  question.  To  kill  fish  outright  is  a 
different  matter.  Death  is  common  to  all  ;  and  a  trout,  speedily 
killed  by  a  man,  may  suffer  no  worse  fate  than  from  the  jaws  of  a 
pike.  It  is  the  mode,  the  lingering  cat-like  cruelty  of  the  angler's 
sport,  that  renders  it  unworthy.  If  fish  were  made  to  be  so  treated, 
then  men  were  also  made  to  be  racked  and  throttled  by  Inquisitors. 
Indeed  among  other  advantages  of  angling.  Cotton  reckons  up  a 
tame  fish-like  acquiescence  to  whatever  the  powerful  chuse  to  inflict. 

We  scratch  not  our  pates. 

Nor  repine  at  the  rates 

Our  superiors  impose  on  our  living ; 

But  do  frankly  submit. 

Knowing  they  have  more  wit 

In  demanding,  than  we  have  in  giving. 

Whilst  quiet  we  sit. 

We  conclude  all  things  fit, 

Acquiescing  with  hearty  submission,  &c. 

And  this  was  no  pastoral  fiction.  The  anglers  of  those  times,  whose 
pastimes  became  famous  from  the  celebrity  of  their  names,  chiefly 
in  divinity,  were  great  fallers  in  with  passivcL  obedience.  They 
seemed  to  think  (whatever  they  found  it  necessary  to  say  now 
and  then  up  on  that  point)  that  the  great  had  as  much  right  to  prey 
upon  men,  as  the  small  had  upon  fishes  :  only  the  men  luckily  had 
not  hooks  put  into  their  jaws,  and  the  sides  of  their  cheeks  torn  to 
pidces.  The  two  most  famous  anglers  in  history  are  Antony  and 
Cleopatra.  These  extremes  of  the  angling  character  are  very  edifying. 
•  We  should  like  to  know  what  these  grave  divines  would  have  said 
to  the  heavenly  maxim  of  "  Do  as  you  would  be  done  by."  Let  us 
imagine  ourselves,  for  instance,  a  sort  of  human  fish.  Air  is  but  a 
rarer  fluid ;  and  at  present,  in  this  November  weather,  a  supernatu- 
ral being  who  should  look  down  upon  us  from  a  higher  atmosphere, 
would,  have  some  reason  to  regard  us  as  a  kind  of  pedestrian  carp. 
Now  fancy  a  Genius  fishing  for  us.  Fancy  him  baiting  a'  great  hook 
with  pickled  salmon,  and  twitching  up  old  Isaac  Walton  from  the 
banks  of  the  river  Lee,  with  the  hook  through  his  ear.  How  he 
would  go  up  roaring  and  screaming,  and  thinking  the  devil  had  got 
him  ! 

Other  joys 

Are  but  toys.  ^.* 

We  rq)eat,  that  if  fish  were  made  to  be  so  treated,  then  we  were 
jmi  as  much  made  to  be  racked  and  suffocated  ;  and  a  footpad  might 
haVe  argiied  that  old  Isaac  was  made  to  have  his  pocket  picked,  and 


THE  INDICATOR.  47 

then  tumbled  into  the  river.  There  is  no  end  of  these  idle  and 
selfish  beggings  of  the  question,  which  at  last  argue  quite  as  much 
against  us  as  for  us.  And  granting  them,  for  the  sake  of  argument, 
it  is  still  obvious,  on  the  very  same  ground,  that  men  were  also  made 
to  be  taught  better.  We  do  not  say,  that  all  anglers  are  of  a  cruel 
nature.  Many  of  them,  doubtless,  are  amiable  men  in  other  mat- 
ters. They  have  only  never  thought  perhaps  on  that  side  of  the 
question,  or  been  accustomed  from  childhood  to  blink  it.  But  once 
thinking,  their  amiableness  and  their  practice  become  incompatible  j 
and  if  they  should  wish,  on  that  account,  never  to  have  thought 
upon  the  subject,  they  would  only  shew,  that  they  cared  for  their 
owii  exemption  from  suffering,  and  not  for  its  diminution  in  general. 


CASTS  FROM  SCULPTURE  AND  GEMS. 

There  is  a  set  of  Italians  now  going  about  the  streets,  who  sell 
busts,  vases,  and  other  casts  in  plaister.  Every  body  may  not  be 
aware,  that  some  of  these  casts  are  after  the  antique.  There  is  a 
head,  for  instance,  of  the  Apollo  Belvedere  from  the  statue  at  Rome  j 
another  of  Homer  j  another  of  Antinous  ;  another,  we  believe,  of  a 
Melpomene,  crowned  with  vine-leaves  in  allusion  to  the  origin  of 
tragedy  ,•  and  a  head  of  Sappho,  which,  if  we  are  not  mistaken,  is 
from  an  ancient  gem.  They  are  more  frequently  seen  with  busts  from 
statues  by  Canova,  such  as  a  Paris  and  a  Venus ;  which  latter,  we 
confess,  with  its  little  scratches  of  curls  in  front,  and  its  hair  tied  up 
behind  like  a  lump  of  sausages,  we  cannot  admire.  But  they  wUI 
procure  the  antiques,  if  asked  for.  Some  of  the  vases  are  from  the 
antique ;  some  Florentine,  which  are  fine,  but  not  so  good  j  some 
French,  which  are  the  least  in  merit.  The  casts  of  figures,  though 
copied  from  the  antique,  are  inferior  to  the  busts.  The  latter  are 
from  good  old  casts ;  sometimes  worn,  but  still  retaining  the  general 
spirit  of  the  original.  The  figures  are  from  slight  and  hasty  moulds ; 
feeble  abridgments,— yet  not  without  their  worth  either,  as  resem- 
bling the  originals,  however  faintly.  There  is  the  Venus  de  Medici, 
the  Gladiator,  the  Quoit-Player,  the  Antinous,  the  Piping  Faun,  the 
Apollo  Belvedere,  all  after  the  antique  j  and  there  is  a  Couching 
Venus,  after  John  of  Bologna,  the  original  of  which  must  have  been 
like  Venus  re-appearing  from  the  antique  world. 

Fewer  people  are  aware  how  cheaply  these  things  are  sold.  The 
little  statues  are  three  or  four  shillings  apiece,  perhaps  less  5  and  a 
profit  is  got  upon  the  head  of  Sappho  at  eighteen-pence.  You  may 
set  a  price  upon  Pa^is's  head,  and  have  the  knave  brought  you  at  two 
shillings. 


48  THE  INDICATOR.      . 

liiipressions  from  ancient  gems  are  now  also  to  be  had  with  sinr- 
gular  cheapness,  in  consequence  of  an  invention  of  Mr.  Tassie's,  of 
Leicester-square.  He  has  found  out  a  composition,  which  enables  him 
to  procure  in  a  few  days,  for  three  and  sixpence,  an  impression  exactly 
resembling  that  of  any  gem  you  may  select.  This  you  may  either 
have  set  for  your  watch-chain,  or  keep  in  your  desk  or  pocket;  for 
the  composition  is  very  hard,  and  does  not  easily  wear  or  chip  off, 
even  at  the  edges.  In  a  seal  or  a  desk,  it  might  last,  we  should 
think,  as  long  as  the  gem  itself.  Mr.  Tassie's  collection  of  antiques 
appears  to  be  very  extensive.  You  may  have  your  choice  among 
all  the  gods  and  graces  of  the  ancient  world, — Jupiters,  Apollos, 
Venuses,  the  Graces,  the  Muses,  Lyres,  Loves,  Festivals,  Pastorjils, 
Patriots,  Poets,  and  Philosophers. 

It  may  be  made  an  objection  to  the  busts  and  other  plaister  casts, 
that  being  so  white  and  of  such  a  material,  they  will  not  keep  clean. 
•But  they  will  keep  as  clean  and  as  long  too  as  the  seals,  if  taken  care  of. 
You  have  only  to  wash  them  lightly  but  completely  over  with  a  brush 
dipped  in  linseed  oil ;  and  besides  their  taking  a  fine  yellowish  hue, 
much  better  than  the  cold  white,  t;he  dust  may  be  brushed  off  ever 
after  as  easily  as  from  an  oil  painting.  Paint  will  secure  them  in  the 
same  way;  but  it  is  apt  to  injure  the  marking  and  expression,  by 
thickening  the  outline,  and  filling  up  the  more  delicate  hollows. 

Thus  for  eighteen-pence,  a  room  may  be  adorned  with  a  cast  after 
the  antique.  And  it  must  be  a  very  fine  picture,  in  our  opinion, 
which  can  equal  the  effect  even  of  a  bust,  much  less  of  a  large  statue. 
There  is  a  kind  of  presence  in  sculpture,  which  there  is  not  in  the 
.flat  surface  and  more  obvious  artifice  of  painting.  It  is  more  com- 
panion-like; of  rather,  it  is  more  godlike,  intellectual,  and  predomi- 
nant. The  very  beauty  of  its  shape  becomes  meditative.  There  is  a 
.look  in  its  calm,  sightless  eyes,  that  seems  to  dispense  with  the 
common  medium  of  vision; — a.  perceiving  thought,  an  undisturbable 
depth  of  intuition. 


[As  this  publication  is  unstamped,  it  will  not  circulate  by  means  of  the  general 
post  without  a  heavy  expense.  Persons  in  the  country  who  wish  to  become 
subscribers  should  therefore  order  it  of  booksellers  who  send  weekly  or  monthly 
parcels  to  their  respective  placea  of  residence.  The  delay  would  be  of  little 
consequence  with  a  work  not  containing  any  thing  of  merely  temporary  inte- 
rest.] . 


vOrilers  received  by  the  Booksellers,  by  the  Newsmen,  and  by  the  Publisher, 
.,     . ,  Jp$»j)h  Appleyard,  19,  Catherine-street,  Strand.— Price  Two-pence. 
Printed  by  C.  H.  Reynell,  No.  45,  Broad-street,  Golden-square,  Loftdon.  "• 


THE    INDICATOR. 

There  is  a  bird  in  the  interior  of  Africa,  whose  habits  would  rather  seem  to  belong  to  the  interior 

Of  Fairy-land :  but  they  have  been  well  authenticated.    It  indicates  to  honey-hunters  where  the  nests 

of  wild  bees  are  to  b    found.    It  Ciills  them  with  a  cheerful  cry,  which  they  answer;  and  on  findine 

itself  rpcoeiiized,  flies  and  hovers  over  a  hollow  tree  containing  the  honey.    While  they  are  occupiea 

in  collectiiig  it,  the  bird  goes  to  a  little  distance,  where  he  observes  all  that  passes ;  and  the  hunters, 

when  they  have  helped  themselves,  take  care  to  leave  him  his  portion  of  the  food. — ^This  is  the 

€v(;ui.us  Indicator  of  Linnseus,  otherwise  called  the  Moroc,  Bee-Cuckoo,  or  Hoaey-Bird.  ji 

There  he  arriving  round  about  doth  flie,  ., 

And  takes  survey  with  busie,  curious  eye : 

Now  this,  now  that,  be  tftsteth  tenderly. Spenser. 


No. VII.— WEDNESDAY,  NOVEMBER  24th,  18X9. 


LUDICROUS  EXAGGERATION. 

'  Men  oPwit  sometimes  like  to  pamper  a  favourite  joke  into  exag- 
geration ; — into  a  certain  corpulence  of  facetiousness.  Their  relish 
of  the  thing  makes  them  wish  it  as  large  as  possible :  and  the  social 
enjoyment  of  it  is  doubled  by  it's  becoming  more  visible  to  the  eyes 
of  others.  It  is  for  this  reason  that  jests  in  company  are  sometimes 
built  up  by  one  hand  after  another, — "^  three-piled  hyperboles," — : 
till  the  over-done  Babel  topples  and  tumbles  down  amidst  a  merry' 
confusion  of  tongues.  '  '  '' 

FalstafFwas  a  great  master  of  this  art.  He  loved  a  joke  as  large  as' 
himself;  witness  his  famous  account  of  the  men  in  buckram.  Thus  he 
tells  the  Lord  Chief  Justice,  that  he  had  lost  his  voice  "with  sirigiijg 
of  anthems  ;"  and  he  calls  Bardolph's  red  nose  "  a  perpetual  triumph, 
an  everlasting  bonfire  lightV  and  says  it  has  saved  him  "  a  thousahd 
marks  in  links  and  torches,"  walking  with  it  "  in  the  night  betwixt 
tavern  and  tavern."  See  how  he  goes  heightening  the  account  of 
his  recruits  at  every  step : — '<  You  would  think  I  had  a  hundred  and 
fifty  tattered  prodigals,  lately  come  from  swine-keeping,  from  eating 
draff  and  husks. — A  mad  fellow  met  me  on  the  way,  and  told  me,  I 
had  unloaded  all  the  gibbets,  and  pressed  the  dead  bodies. — No  eye 
hath  seen  such  scare-crows. — I'll  not  march  through  Coventry  with 
them,  that's  flat.— Nay,  and  the  villains  march  wide  betwixt  the 
legs,  as  if  they  had  gyves  on  5  for  indeed  I  had  most  of  them  out  of 
prison.— There's  but  a  shirt  and  a  half  in  all  my  company ; — and  the 
half-shirt  is  two  napkins,  tacked  together,  and  thrown  over  the 
shoulders  like  a  herald's  coat  without  sleeves." 

An  old  schoolfellow  of  ours,  (who  by  the  way,  was  more  fond  of 
quoting  Falstaff  than  any  other  of  Shakspeare's  chararacters)  used  to 
be  called  upon  for  a  story,  Avith  a  view  to  a  joke  of  this  sort  j  it 
being  an  understood  thing  that  he  had  a  privilege  of  exaggeration, 
without  committing  his  abstract  love  of  truth.    The  reader  knows 


50  THE  INDICATOR. 

the  old  blunder  attributed  to  Goldsmith  about  a  dish  of  green  peas. 
Somebody  had  been  applauded  in  company  for  advising  his  cook  to 
take  some  ill-drest  peas  to  Hammersmith,  "  because  that  was  the 
way  to  Turn'em  Green;"  upon  which  Goldsmith  is  said  to  have  gone 
and  repeated  the  pun  at  another  table  in  this  fashion ; — "  John  should 
take  those  peas,  I  think,  to  Hammersmith."  "  Why  so.  Doctor  ?" 
"  Because  that  is  the  way  to  make  'em  green."  Now  our  friend 
would  give  the  blunder  with  this  sort  of  additional  dressing.  "  At 
sight  of  the  dishes  of  vegetables.  Goldsmith,  who  was  at  his  own 
house,  took  off  the  covers,  one  after  another,  with  great  anxiety,  till 
he  found  that  peas  were  among  them ;  upon  which  he  rubbed  his 
hands  with  an  air  of  infinite  and  prospective  satisfaction.  "  You  are 
fond  of  peas.  Sir?"  said  one  of  the  company.  "  Yes,  Sir,"  said 
Goldsmith,  "particularly  so: — I  eat  them  all  the  year  round  ; — I 
mean.  Sir,  every  day  in  the  season.  I  do  not  think  there  is  any  body 
so  fond  of  peas  as  I  am!"  "  Is  there  any  particular  reason,  Doctor," 
asked  a  gentleman  present,  "why  you  like  peas  so  much,  beyond  the 
usual  one  of  their  agreeable  taste?" — "  No,  Sir,  none  whatsoever  : — 
none  I  assure  you"  (here  Goldsmith  shewed  a  great  wish  to  impress 
this  fact  on  his  guests) :  "  I  never  heard  any  particular  , encomium 
or  speech  about  them  from  any  one  else :  but  they  carry  their  own 
eloquence  with  them  :  they  are  things.  Sir,  of  infinite  taste."  (Here 
a  laugh,  which  put  Goldsmith  in  additional  spirits.)  "  But,  bless 
me  !"  he  exclaimed,  looking  narrowly  into  the  peas : — "I  fear  they  are 
very  ill-done :  they  are  al)Solutely  yellow  instead  of  green'''  (here  he 
put  a  strong  emphasis  on  green) ;  "  and  you  know,  peas  should  be 
emphatically  green: — greenness  in  a  pea  is  a  quality  as  essential,  as 
whiteness  in  a  lily.  The  cook  has  quite  spoilt  them  : — but  I'll  give 
the  rogue  a  lecture,  gentlemen,  with  your  permission."  Goldsmith 
then  rose  and  rang  the  bell  violently  for  the  cook,  who  came  in,  ready 
booted  and  spurred.  "  Ha !"  exclaimed  Goldsmith,  "  those  boots  and 
spurs  are  your  salvation,  you  knave.  Do  you  know.  Sir,  what  you 
have  done?" — "No,  Sir." — "  Why,  j'ou  have  made  the  peas  yellow. 
Sir.  Go  instantly,  and  take  'em  to  Hammersmith."  "To  Hammer- 
smith, Sir?"  cried  the  man,  all  in  astonishment,  the  guests  being  no 
less  so : — "  please  Sir,  why  am  I  to  take  'em  to  Hammersmith  ?'* — 
"  Because,  Sir,"  and  here  Goldsmith  looked  round  with  triumphant 
anticipation,  "  that  is  the  way  to  render  those  peas  green." 

There  is  a  very  humourous  piece  of  exaggeration  in  Butler's  Re- 
mains,— a  collection,  by  the  bye,  well  worthy  of  Hudibras,  and  in- 
deed of  more  interest  to  the  general  reader.  Butler  is  defrauded  of 
his  fame  with  readers  of  taste  who  happen  to  be  no  politicians,  when 
Hudibras  is  printed  without  this  appendage.  The  piece  we  allude 
to  is  a  short  Description  of  Holland  : — 

A  country  that  draws  fifty  foot  of  water, 
In  which  men  live  as  in  the  hold  of  nature  ; 
And  when  the  sea  does  in  upon  them  break, 
And  drowns  a  province,  does  but  spring  a  leak. 


THE  INDICATOR.  51 

That  feed,  like  cannibals,  on  other  fishes, 
And  serve  their  cousin-germans  up  in  dishes. 
A  land  that  rides  at  anchor,  and  is  moored. 
In  which  they  do  not  live,  but  go  aboard. 

We  do  not  know,  and  perhaps  it  would  be  impossible  to  discover, 
whether  Butler  wrote  his  minor  pieces  before  those  of  the  great  pa- 
triot Andrew  MarveU,  who  rivalled  him  in  wit  and  excelled  him  in 
poetry.  MarveU,  though  born  later,  seems  to  have  been  known  earlier 
as  an  author.  He  was  certainly  known  publicly  before  him.  But  in 
the  political  poems  of  MarveU  there  is  a  ludicrous  Character  of  Hol- 
land, which  might  be  pronounced  to  be  either  the  copy  or  the  origi- 
nal of  Butler's,  if  in  those  Anti-Batavian  times  the  Hollander  had 
not  been  baited  by  all  the  wits  ;  and  were  it  not  probable,  that  the 
unwieldy  monotony  of  his  character  gave  rise  to  much  the  same  ludi- 
crous imagery  in  many  of  their  fancies.  Marvell's  wit  has  the  ad- 
vantage of  Butler's,  not  in  learning  or  multiplicity  of  contrasts  (for 
nobody  ever  beat  him  there),  but  in  a  greater  variety  of  them,  and 
in  being  able,  from  the  more  poetical  turn  of  his  mind,  to  bring  graver 
and  more  imaginative  things  to  wait  upon  his  levity. 

He  thus  opens  the  battery  upon  our  amphibious  neighbour : — 

Holland,  that  scarce  deserves  the  name  of  land, 
As  but  the  ofF-scouring  of  the  British  saad  ; 
And  so  much  earth  as  was  contributed 
By  English  pilots,  when  they  heaved  the  lead  j 
Or  what  by  the  ocean's  slow  alluvion  fell. 
Of  shipwrecked  cockle  and  the  muscle-shell. 


Glad  then,  as  miners  who  have  found  the  ore. 
They,  with  mad  labour,*  fished  the  laud  to  shore  j 
And  dived  as  desperately  for  each  piece 
Of  earth,  as  if  it  had  been  of  ambergreece  ; 
Collecting  anxiously  small  loads  of  clay. 
Less  than  what  building  swallows  bear  away  ; 
Or  than  those  pills  which  sordid  beetles  rowl. 
Transfusing  into  them  their  dunghill  soul. 

He  goes  on  in  a  strain  of  exquisite  hyperbole  : — 

How  did  they  rivet  with  gigantic  piles 
Thorough  the  centre  their  new-catched  miles; 
And  to  the  stake  a  struggling  country  bound. 
Where  barking  waves  still  bait  the  forced  ground  ; 
Building  their  wat'ry  Babel  far  more  high 
To  catch  the  waves,  than  those  to  scale  the  sky. 
Yet  still  his  claim  the  injured  ocean  layed. 
And  oft  at  leap  frog  o'er  their  steeples  played  ; 
As  if  on  purpose  it  on  land  had  come 
To  shew  them  what's  their  Mare  Liberum ;  f 
A  dayly  deluge  over  them  does  boil ; 
The  earth  and  water  play  at  level-coyl  ; 

*  Dryden  afterwards,  of  fighting  for  gain,  in  his  song  of  "  Come,  if  you  dare  i 

The  Gods  from  above  the  ffiad  labanr  behold, 
t  A  Free  Ocean. 


52  THE  INDICATOR. 

The  fish  oft-times  the  burgher  dispossessed. 
And  sat,  not  as  a  meat,  but  as  a  guest : 
And  oft  the  Tritons,  and  the  Sea-nymphs,  saw 
Whole  shoals  of  Dutch  served  up  for  eabillau. 
Or,  as  they  over  the  new  level  ranged, 
,    For  pickled  herring,  pickled  Heeren  changed. 
Nature,  it  seemed,  ashamed  of  her  mistake. 
Would  throw  their  land  away  at  duck  and  drake : 
Therefore  necessity,  that  first  made  kings. 
Something  like  government  among  them  brings: 
For  as  with  Pigmys,  who  best  kills  the  crane. 
Among  the  hungry  he  that  treasures  grain. 
Among  the  blind  the  one-eyed  blinkard  reigns. 
So  rules  among  the  drowned  he  that  drains. 
Not  who  first  sees  the  rising  sun,  commands; 
But  who  could  first  discern  the  rising  lands  ; 
Who  best  could  know  to  pump  an  earth  so  leak. 
Him  they  their  lord  and  country's  father  speak  ; 
To  make  a  bank  was  a  great  plot  of  state  ; — 
Invent  a  shovel,  and  be  a  magistrate. 

We  can  never  read  these  or  some  other  ludicrous  verses  of  Marvell, 
even  when  by  ourselves,  without  laughter ;  but  we  must  curtail  our 
self-indulgence  for  the  present. 


GILBERT!    GILBERT! 

The  idea  generally  conveyed  to  us  by  historians  of  Thomas  k  Becket 
is  that  of  a  mere  haughty  priest,  who  tried  to  elevate  the  religious 
power  above  the  civil.  But  in  looking  more  narrowly  into  the  ac- 
counts of  him,  it  appears  that  for  a  great  part  of  his  life  he  was  a 
merry  layman,  was  a  great  falconer,  feaster,  and  patron,  as  well  as 
man  of  business ;  and  he  wore  all  characters  with  such  unaffected 
pleasantness  to  all  ranks,  that  he  was  called  the  Delight  of  the 
Western  World. 

All  on  a  sudden,  to  ev^ry  body's  surprise,  Henry  the  2nd,  from 
Chancellor  made  him  Archbishop ;  and  with  equal  suddenness,  though 
retaining  his  affability,  the  new  head  of  the  English  church  put  off 
all  his  worldly  graces  and  pleasures  (save  and  except  a  rich  gown 
over  his  sackcloth); — and  in  the  midst  of  a  gay  court,  became  the 
most  mortified  of  ascetics.  Instead  of  hunting  and  hawking,  he 
paced  a  solitary  cloister;  instead  of  his  wine,  he  drank  fennel- water  j 
and  in  lieu  of  soft  clothing,  he  indulged  his  back  in  stripes. 

This  phenomenon  has  divided  the  opinions  of  the  moral  critics. 
Some  insist  that  Becket  was  religiously  in  earnest,  and  think  the 
change  natural  to  a  man  of  the  world  whose  heart  had  been  struck 
with  reflection.  Others  see  in  it  nothing  but  ambition.  We  cer- 
tainly think  that  three  parts  of  the  truth  are  with  the  latter  j  and 
that  Becket,  suddenly  enabled  to  dispute  a  kind  of  sovereignty  with 
his  prince  and  friend,  gave  way  to  the  new  temptation,  just  as  he  had 
done  to  his  falconry,  and  fine  living.  But  the  complete  alteration  of 
his  way  of  life^ — the  enthusiasm  which  enabled  him  to  set  up  so  dif- 


THE  INDICATOR.  53 

ferent  a  greatness  against  his  former  one, — shews,  that  his  character 
partook  atJeast  of  as  much  sincerity,  as  would  enable  him  to  delude 
himself  in  good  taste.  In  proportion  as  his  very  egotism  was  con- 
cerned, it  was  likely  that  such  a  man  would  exalt  the  gravity  and 
importance  of  his  new  calling.  He  had  flourished  at  an  earthly  court : 
he  now  wished  to  be  as  great  a  man  in  the  eyes  of  another;  and 
worldly  power,  which  was  at  once  to  be  enjoyed  and  despised  by  virtue 
of  his  religious  office,  had  a  zest  given  to  it's  possession,  of  which  the 
incredulousness  of  mere  insincerity  could  know  nothing. 

Thomas  k  Becket  may  have  inherited  his  portion  of  the  romantic 
from  his  mother,  whose  story  is  a  singular  one.  His  father,  Gilbert 
Becket,  who  was  afterwards  a  flourishing  citizen,  was  in  his  youth 
a  soldier  in  the  crusades  j  and  being  taken  prisoner,  became  slave  to 
an  Emir  or  Saracen  prince.  By  degrees  he  obtained  the  confidence 
of  his  master,  and  was  admitted  to  his  company,  where  he  met  a 
personage  who  became  more  attached  to  him.  This  was  the  Emir's 
daughter.  Whether  by  her  means  or  not  does  not  appear ;  but  after 
some  time  he  contrived  to  escape.  The  lady  with  her  loving  heart 
followed  him.  She  knew,  they  say,  but  two  words  of  his  language, — 
London  and  Gilbert 3  and  by  repeating  the  former,  she  obtained  a 
passage  in  a  vessel,  arrived  in  England,  and  found  her  trusting  way 
to  the  metropolis.  She  then  took  to  her  other  talisman,  and  went 
from  street  to  street  pronouncing  Gilbert.  A  crowd  collected  about 
her  wherever  she  went,  asking  of  course  a  thousand  questions,  and 
to  all  she  had  but  one  answer — Gilbert !  Gilbert !  She  found  her 
ftiith  in  it  sufficient.  Chance,  or  her  determination  to  go  through 
every  street,  brought  her  at  last  to  the  one,  in  which  he  who  had 
won  her  heart  in  slavery,  was  living  in  prosperous  condition.  The 
crowd  drew  the  family  to  the  window;  his  servant  recognized  her  j 
and  Gilbert  Becket  took  to  his  arms,  and  his  bridal  bed,  his  far-come 
princess,  with  her  solitary  fond  word. 

These  are  better  histories  than  the  quarrels  of  kings  and  arch- 
bishops. 


FATAL  MISTAKE  OF  NERVOUS  DISORDERS  FOR  INSANITY. 

,  Some  affecting  catastrophes  in  the  public  papers  induce  us  to  say 
a  few  words  on  the  mistaken  notions,  which  are  so  often,  in  our 
opinion,  the  cause  of  their  appearance.  It  is  much  to  be  wished 
that  some  physician,  truly  so  called,  and  philosophically  competent 
to  the  task,  would  write  a  work  on  this  subject.  We  have  plenty  of 
books  on  symptoms  and  other  alarming  matters,  very  useful  for  in- 
creasing the  liarm  already  existing.  We  believe  also  there  are  some 
works  of  a  different  kind,  if  not  written  in  direct  counteraction  ;  but 
the  learned  authors  are  apt  to  be  so  prodigiously  grand  and  etymo- 
logical in  their  title-pages,  that  they  must  frighten  the  general  un- 
derstanding with  their  very  advertisements. 


54  THE  INDICATOR. 

There  is  this  great  difFeience  between  what  is  generally  understood 
by  the  word  insanity,  and  the  nervous  or  melancholy  disorders,  the 
excess  of  which  is  so  often  confounded  with  it.  Insanity  is  a  conse- 
quence of  malformation  of  the  brain,  and  is  by  no  means  of  neces- 
sity attended  with  melancholy  or  even  ill  health.  The  patient,  in  the 
very  midst  of  it,  is  often  strong,  healthy,  and'  even  chearful.  On  the 
other  hand,  nervous  disorders  or  even  melancholy  in  it's  most  aggra- 
vated state,  is  nothing  but  the  excess  of  a  state  of  stomach  and 
blood,  extremely  common.  The  mind  no  doubt  will  act  upon  that 
state,  and  exasperate  it ;  but  there  is  great  reaction  between  mind 
and  body ;  and  as  it  is  a  common  thing  for  a  man  in  an  ordinary 
fever,  or  fit  of  the  bile,  to  be  melancholy,  and  even  to  do  or  feel  in- 
clined to  do  an  extravagant  thing,  so  it  is  as  common  for  him  to  get 
well  and  be  quite  chearful  again.  Thus  it  is  among  witless  people 
that  the  true  insanity  will  be  found.  It  is  the  more  intelligent  that 
are  subject  to  the  other  disordei's  ;  and  a  proper  use  of  their  intelli- 
gence will  shew  them  what  the  disorders  are. 

But  weak  treatment  may  frighten  the  intelligent.  A  kind  persbn 
for  ir^stance,  in  a  fit  of  melancholy,  may  confess  that  he  feels  an 
inclination  to  do  some  desperate  or  even  cruel  thing.  This  is 
often  treated  at  once  as  insanity,  instead  of  an  excess  of  the  kind 
just  mentioned;  and  the  person  seeing  he  is  thought  mad,  begins  to 
think  himself  so,  and  at  last  acts  as  if  he  were.  This  is  a  lamenta- 
ble evil ;  but  it  does  not  stop  here.  The  children  or  other  relatives 
of  the  person  may  become  victims  to  the  mistake.  They  think  there 
is  madness,  as  the  phrase  is,  "  in  the  family  ;"  and  so  whenever  they 
feel  ill,  or  meet  with  a  misfortune,  the  thought  will  prey  upon  their 
minds  ;  and  this  may  lead  to  catastrophes,  with  which  they  have  really 
no  more  to  do  than  any  other  sick  or  unfortunate  people.  How 
many  persons  have  committed  an  extravagance  in  a  brain  fever,  or 
undergone  hallucinations  of  mind  in  consequence  of  getting  an  ague, 
or  taking  opium,  or  fifty  other  causes  ;  and  yet  the  moment  the  least 
wandering  of  mind  is  observed  in  them,  others  become  frightened ; 
their  fright  is  manifested  beyond  all  necessity ;  and  the  patients  and 
their  family  must  suffer  for  it.  They  seem  to  think,  that  no  disor- 
der can  properly  be  held  a  true  Christian  sickness,  and  fit  for  chari- 
table interpretation,  but  where  the  patient  has  gone  regularly  to 
bed,  and  had  curtains,  and  caudle-cups,  and  nurses  about  him, 
like  a  well-behaved  respectable  sick  gentleman.  But  this  state  of 
things  implies  muscular  weakness,  or  weakness  of  that  sort  which 
renders  the  bodily  action  feeble.  Now,  in  nervous  disorders,  the 
muscular  action  may  be  as  strong  as  ever ;  and  people  may  reasona- 
bly be  allowed  a  world  of  illness,  sitting  in  their  chairs,  or  even 
walking  or  running. 

These  mistaken  pronouncers  upon  disease  ought  to  be  told,  that 
when  they  are  thus  unwarrantably  frightened,  they  are  partaking  of 
the  very  essence  of  what  they  misapprehend  ;  for  it  is  fear,  in  all  it's 
various  degrees  and  modifications,  which  is  at  the  bottom  of  nervous- 
ness aild  melancholy  j   not  fear  in  it's  ordinary  sense,  as  opposed  to 


THE  INDICATOR.  55 

cowardice,  (for  ainan  who  would  shudder  at  a  bat  or  a  vague  idea,  may 
be  bold  as  a  lion  against  an  enemy),  but  imaginative  fear  5 — fear 
either  of  something  known,  or  of  the  patient  knows  not  what ; — a 
vague  sense  of  terror,  —  an  impulse,  —  an  apprehension  of  ill, — 
dwelling  upon  some  painful  and  worrying  thought.  Now  this  suf- 
fering is  inevitably  connected  with  a  weak  state  of  the  body  in  some 
respects,  particularly  of  the  stomach.  Hundreds  will  be  found  to 
have  felt  it,  if  patients  enquire ;  but  the  mind  ip  sometimes  afraid  of 
acknowledging  it's  apprehensions  even  to  itself  3  and  thus  fear 
broods  over  and  hatches  fear. 

These  disorders,  generally  speaking,  are  greater  or  less  in  their 
effects  according  to  the  exercise  of  reason.  But  do  not  let  the  word 
be  misunderstood  :  we  should  rather  say,  according  to  the  extent 
of  the  information.  A  very  imaginative  man  will  indeed  be 
likely  to  suffer  more  than  otheis  ;  but  if  his  knowledge  is  at  all  in 
proportion,  he  will  also  gfet  through  his  evil  better  than  an  unin- 
formed man  suffering  great  terrors.  And  the  reason  is,  that  he 
knows  how  much  bodily  unhealthiness  has  to  do  with  it.  The  very 
woi'ds  that  frighten  the  unknowing,  might  teach  them  better,  if  un- 
derstood. Thus  insanity  itself  properly  means  nothing  but  unhealthi- 
ness or  unsoundness.  Derangement  explains  itself,  and  may  surely 
mean  very  harmless  things.  Melancholy  is  compounded  of  two 
words,  which  signify  dark  bile.  Hypochondria  is  the  name  of  one 
of  the  regions  of  the  stomach, — a  very  instructive  etymology.  And 
lunacy  refers  to  effects,  real  or  imaginary,  of  particular  states  of 
the  moon ;  which  if  any  thing  after  all,  are  nothing  more  than  what 
every  delicate  constitution  feels  in  its  degree  from  particular  states 
of  the  weather  ;  for  weather,  like  the  tides,  is  apt  to  be  in  such  and 
such  a  condition,  when  the  moon  presents  such  and  such  a  face. 

It  has  been  said. 

Great  wits  to  madness  nearly  are  allied. 

It  is  curious  that  he  who  wrote  the  saying  (Dryden)  was  a  very 
sound  wit  to  the  end  of  his  life ;  while  his  wife,  who  was  of  a  weak 
understanding,  became  insane.  An  excellent  writer  (Wordsworth)  has 
written  an  idle  couplet  about  the  insanity  of  poets  : 

We  poets  enter  on  our  path  with  gladness, 

But  thereof  comes  iu  the  end  despondency  and  madness. 

If  he  did  not  mean  madness  in  the  ordinary  sense,  he  should -not 
have  written  this  line ;  if  he  did,  he  ought  not  to  have  fallen,  in  the 
teeth  of  his  information,  into  so  vulgar  an  error.  There  are  very 
few  instances  of  insane  poets,  or  of  insane  great  understandings 
of  any  sort.  Bacon,  Milton,  Newton,  Shakspeare,  Cervantes,  &c. 
were  all  of  minds  as  sound  as  they  were  great.  So  it  has  been  with 
the  infinite  majority  of  literary  men  of  all  countries.  If  Tasso  and  a 
few  others  were  exceptions,  they  were  but  exceptions  3  and  the  de- 
rangement in  these  eminent  men  has  very  doubtful  characters  about 
it,  and  is  sometimes  made  a  question.     It  may  be  pretty  safely  af- 


56  THE  INDICATOR. 

firmed,  at  least,  upon  an  examination  of  it,  that  had  they  not  been 
the  clever  men  they  were,  it  would  have  been  muoh  worse  and  less 
equivocal.  Collins,  whose  case  was  after  all  one  of  inanition  rather 
than  insanity,  had  been  a  free  liver  5  and  seems  to  have  been  hurt  by 
having  a  fortune  left  him,.  Cowper  was  weak-bodied,  and  beset 
by  Methodists.  Swift's  body  was  full  of  bad  humours.  He 
himself  attributed  his  disornered  system  to  the  effects  of  a  surfeit  of 
fruit  on  his  stomach ;  and  in  his  last  illness  he  used  to  break  out  in 
enormous  biles  and  blisters.  This  was  a  violent  effort  of  nature  to 
help  and  purify  the  current  of  his  blood, — the  main  object  in  all 
such  cases.  Dr.  Johnson,  who  was  subject  to  mists  of  melancholy, 
used  to  fancy  he  should  go  mad  ;  but  he  never  did. 

Exercise,  conversation,  cheerful  society,  amusements  of  all  sorts,  or 
a  kind,  patient,  and  gradual  helping  of  the  bodily  health,  till  the  mind 
be  capable  of  amusement  (for  it  should  never  foolishly  be  told  "  not  to 
think  "  of  melancholy  things,  without  having  something  done  for  it 
to  mend  the  bodily  health), — these  are  the  cures,  the  only  cures,  and 
in  our  opinion  the  almost  infallible  cures  of  nervous  disorders,  how- 
ever excessive.  Above  all,  the  patient  shoidd  be  told,  that  there  has 
often  been  an  end  to  that  torment  of  one  haunting  idea,  which  is  in- 
deed a  great  and  venerable  suffering.  Many  persons  have  got  over 
it  in  a  week,  a  few  weeks,  or  a  month,  some  in  a  few  months,  some 
not  for  years,  but  they  have  got  over  it  at  last.  There  is  a  remark^ 
able  instance  of  this  in  the  life  of  our  great  king  Alfred.  He  was 
seized,  says  his  contemporary  biographei-,  with  such  a  strange  illness, 
while  sitting  at  table  in  the  twenty-fifth  year  (we  think)  of  his  age, 
that  he  shrieked  aloud  j  and  for  twenty  years  afterwards  this  illness 
so  preyed  upon  him,  that  the  relief  of  one  hour  was  embittered  by 
what  he  dreaded  would  come  the  next.  His  disorder  is  conjectured 
by  some  to  have  been  an  internal  cancer ;  by  others,  with  moi-e  pro- 
bability, the  black  bile,  or  melancholy.  The  physicians  of  those 
times  knew  nothing  about  it ;  and  the  people  shewed  at  once  their 
ignorance,  and  their  admiration  of  the  king,  by  saying  that  the  devil 
had  caused  it  out  of  jealousy.  It  was  probably  produced  by  anxiety 
for  the  state  of  his  country ;  but  the  same  thing  which  wounded  him 
might  have  helped  to  keep  him  up  ;  for  he  had  plenty  of  business  to. 
attend  to,  and  fought  with  his  own  hand  in  fifty-six  pitched  battles. 
Now  exactly  twenty  years  after,  in  the  forty-fifth  year  of  his  age  (if 
our  former  recollection  is  right)  this  disorder  totally  left  him ;  and 
his  great  heart  was  where  it  ought  to  be,  in  a  heaven  of  health  and 
calmness. 

[As  tlii?  publication  is  unstamped,  it  will  not  circulate  by  means  of  the  general 
post  without  a  lieavy  expense.  Persons  in  the  country  who  wish  to  become 
subscribers  should  therefore  order  it  of  booksellers  who  send  weekly  or  monthly 
parcels  to  their  respective  places  of  residence.  The  delay  would  be  of  little 
Consequence  with  a  work  not  containing-  any  thing-  of  merely  temporary  inte- 
rest.] 

Orders  received  by  the  ^Booksellers,  by  the  Newsmen,  and  by  the  Publisher, 

Joseph  Appleyard,  19,  Catherine-street,  Strand. — Price  Two-pence. 

Printed  Dy  C.  H.  Reynell,  No.  45,  Broad-street,  Golden -square,  London. 


THE    IN.DICATOR. 

There  he  arriving  round  about  doth  flie, 

And  takes  survey  with  busie,  curious  eye: 

Now  this,  now  that,  he  tasteth  tenderly.— ^-SPENSERd 


No.  VIII.— WEDNESDAY,  DECEMBER  1st,  1819, 


MISTS  AND  FOGS. 


The  world  never  feels  so  cheerless,  as  when  it  is  undergoing  mists 
and  fogs.  As  long  as  there  are  objects  to  look  at,  it  is  hard  if 
we  cannot  find  something  to  entertain  our  thoughts ;  but  when 
the  world  itself  is  shut  out  from  our  observation ;  when  the  same 
mists,  that  shut  it  out,  come  clinging  round  about  us  with  cold ;  and 
when  we  think  what  the  poor  are  likely  to  suffer  from  the  approach- 
ing winter,  we  seem  to  feel,  not  only  that  we  are  dreary,  but  that 
we  ought  to  be  so.  * 

And  so  we  ought,  as  far  as  our  own  dreariness  will  the  more  excite 
tis  to  relieve  that  of  others.  Sympathy  is  our  first  duty,  let  it  come 
either  in  the  shape  of  pain  or  pleasure.  But  when  we  have  done  our 
duty  to  others  j  when  we  have  refused,  as  much  as  in  us  lies,  to  take 
our  own  pleasures  till  we  have  done  what  we  can  to  share  them  with 
others,  whether  by  a  fortunate  power  to  bestow,  or  by  other  personal 
helping,  less  fortunate  but  sometimes  more  noble,  or  even  by  nothing 
but  the  dissemination  of  instructed  and  ehearful  thoughts, — smiles, 
which  even  a  poverty-stricken  hand  may  sometimes  sow  in  the  warm 
earth  of  humanity, — then  we  have  the  fullest  right  to,  gather  enjoy- 
ment from  all  we  can ;  and  then  also,  because  we  have  the  fullest 
right,  we  have  the  gi'eatest  power. 

And  yet  at  tlae  same  time,  when  we  speak  of  right,  we  are  struck 
with  the  inconclusiveness  which  is  to  he  found  in  decisions,  appa- 
rently the  kindest  as  well  as  most  useful.  Who  shall  say  what  is  the 
greater  right,  which  any  one  human  being,  under  all  the  circum- 
stances which  modify  his  character,  has  beyond  any  other  to  be 
made  happy  ?  However,  there  seems  a  great  difference  between  man 
and  man  in  the  actual  amount  of  their  enjoyments ;  and  if  the  great 
silence  of  Nature  keeps  us  in  ignorance  of  the  reason  (for  supersti- 
tion does  but  perplex  the  matterr  instead  of  unfolding  it),  it  is  a 
comforting  reflection,  not  only  that  the  general  yearning  of  things 
is  towards  happiness,  but  that  happiness  is  produced,  in  proportion 
as  the  yearning  is  general  and  sympathetic;  in  other  words,  in 
proportion  as  it  tends  to  the  greatest  sum  of  happiness.  , 

Behold  one  of  the  advantages  of  fogs  and  mists  !  If  the  southern 
nations,  with  their  sunshine  and  clear  air,  are  more  joyous  than  we 
are,  and  have  a  greater  but  vaguer  instinct  to'tnake  others  partake 


58  THE  INDICATOR. 

of  their  pleasure,  our  greater  share  of  melancholy  sets  us  upon 
,  scheming  how  to  turn  that  instinct  of  humanity  to  the  best  account. 
It  is  thus  that  England,  though  slow  to  enjoy,  has  of  old  been  quick 
to  relieve  j-^r-has  had  the  chief  hand  in  giving  those  great  lifts  to  the 
world  in  knowledge  and  liberty,  for  which  the  sunny  Italian  was 
too  idle  and  contented. 

It  is  from  the  same  cause,  that  our  great  poets  (with  one  exception 
perhaps  as  to  grandeur  of  invention)  are  greater  than  those  of  Italy. 
They  have  seen  the  dark  as  well  as  the  Wight  side  of  things ;  and 
their  knowledge  of  both,  gives  to  their  writings  a  depth  of  charity 
as  well  as  imagination,  pre-eminently  human.  All  the  things  that 
can  be  said /or  human  nature,  as  well  as  about  it's  passions  and  ima- 
ginings, are  to  be  found  perhaps  in  Shakspeare,  and  in  Shakspeare 
only ;  but  his  contemporaries  had  a  good  share  of  the  same  gentle 
spirit  of  arbitration. 

On  the  othei*  hand,  where  the  English  do  not  cultivate  the  more 
genial  part  of  experience,  they  are  likely  to  err  more  than  most 
nations  ;  for  pain,  when  it  does  not  turn  into  knowledge,  is  apt  to 
turn  into  sullenness  and  malignity.  It's  reliefs  also  become  of  the 
grossest  and  most  selfish  nature  ;  and  nothing  can  be  more  disgust- 
ingly pitiable  than  a  gross  arrogant  Englishman,  who  in  the  pleni- 
tude of  his  egotism  talks  against  vanity ;  and  in  the  midst  of  the 
most  selfish  and  sordid  vices, — money- scraping,  or  gormandizing,  or 
drinking,  or  cock-fighting, — thinks  himself  entitled  to  despise  other 
nations,  whose  vices  are  rather  the  excesses  of  sympathy. 

Such  a  man  is  not  worthy  of  his  very  fogs ;  for  even  they  have 
their  bright  sides,  and  help  to  increase  the  comforts  of  our  houses. 
And  now  then  to  say  something  of  their  merits  and  treatment. 

Fogs  and  mists,  being  nothing  but  vapours  which  the  cold  air  will 
not  suffer  to  evaporate,  must  have  body  enough  to  present  a  gorgeous 
aspect  next  the  sun..  To  the  eye  of  an  eagle,  or  whatever  other  eyes 
there  may  be  to  look  down  upon  them,  they  must  appear  like  masses 
of  cloudy  gold;  In  fact,  they  are  but  clouds  unvisen.  The  city 
of  London,  at  the  time  we  are  writing  this  article,  is  literally  a  city 
in  the  clouds.  It's  inhabitants  walk  through  the  same  airy  heaps, 
which  at  other  times  float  far  over  their  heads  in  the  sky,  or  minister 
with  glorious  faces  to  the  setting  sun. 

We  do  not  say,  that  any  one  can  "  hold  a  fire  in  his  hand,"  by 
thinking  on  a  fine  sunset ;  or  that  sheer  imagination  of  any  sort  can 
make  it  a  very  agreeable  thing  to  feel  as  if  one's  body  were  wrapped 
round  with  cold  wet  paper ;  much  less  to  flounder  through  gutters, 
or  run  against  posts.  But  the  mind  can  often  help  itself  with  agree- 
able images  against  disagreeable  ones  j  or  pitch  itself  round  to  the 
test  sides  and  aspects  of  them.  The  solid  and  fiery  ball  of  the  sun, 
stuck,  as  it  were,  in  the  thick  foggy  atmosphere ;  the  moon  just 
winning  her  way  through  it,  into  beams  ;  nay,  the  very  candles  and 
gas-lights  in  the  shop  windows  of  a  misty  evening, — all  have,  in  our 
eyes,  their  agreeable  varieties  of  contrast  to  the  surrounding  haze. 
We  have  e«ven  halted,  of  a  dreary  autumnal  evening,  at  that  opeij 
part  of  the  Strand  by  St.  Clement's,  and  seen  the  church,  which  is  a 


THE  INDICATOR.  59 

poor  structure  of  itself,  take  an  aspect  of  ghastly  grandeur  from  the 
dark  atmosphere  ;  looking  like  a  tall  white  mass  mounting  up  inter- 
minably into  the  night  overhead. 

The  poetS;,  who  are  the  common  friends  that  keep  up  the  inter- 
course between  nature  and  humanity,  have  in  numberless  passages 
done  justice  to  these  our  melancholy  visitors,  and  shewn  us  what 
grand  personages  they  are.  To  mention  only  a  few  of  the  most 
striking.  When  Thetis  in  Homer's  Iliad  (Book  1,  v.  359.)  rises  out 
qf  the  sea  to  console  Achilles,  she  issues ,  forth  in  a  mist ;  like  the 
gigantic  Genius  in  the  Arabian  Nights.  The  reader  is  to  suppose 
that  the  mist,  after  ascending,  comes  gliding  over  the  water ;  and 
condensing  itself  into  a  human  shape,  lands  the  white-footed  goddess 
on  the  shore. 

When  Achilles,  after  his  long  and  vindictive  absence  from  the  Greek 
armies,  re-appears  in  consequence  of  the  death  of  his  friend  Patroclus, 
and  stands  before  the  appalled  Trojan  armies,  who  are  thrown  into 
confusion  at  the  very  sight,  Minerva  to  render  his  aspect  the  more 
astonishing  and  avyrful,  puts  about  his  head  a  halo  of  golden  mist, 
streaming  upwards  with  fire  (Book  18,  v.  205).  He  shouts  aloud 
under  this  preternatural  diadem ;  Minerva  throws  into  his  shout  her 
ovm  immortal  voice  with  a  strange  unnatural  cry;  at  which  the 
horses  of  the  Trojan  warriors  run  round  with  their  chariots ;  and 
twelve  of  their  noblest  captains  perish  in  the  crush. 

A  mist  was  the  usual  clothing  of  the  gods,  when  they  descended  to 
earth ;  especially  of  ApoUo,  whose  brightness  had  double  '  need  of 
mitigation.  Homer,  to  heighten  the  dignity  of  Ulysses,  has  finely 
given  him  the  same  covering,  when  he  passes  through  the  court  of 
Antinous,  and  suddenly  appears  before  the  throne.  This  has  been 
turned  to  happy  account  by  Virgil,  and  to  a  new  and  noble  one  by 
Milton.  Virgil  makes  ^neas  issue  suddenly  from  a  mist,  at  the' 
moment  when  his  friends  think  him  lost,  and  the  beautiful  Queen  of 
Carthage  is  wishing  his  presence.  Milton, — but  we  will  give  one  or 
two  of  his  minor  uses  of  mists,  by  way  of  making  a  climax  of  the  one 
alluded  to.  If  Satan,  for  instance,  goes  lurking  about  Paradise,  it  is 
"^  like  a  black  mist  low  creeping."  If  the  angels  on  guard  glide 
about  it,  upon  their  gentler  errand,  it  is  like  fairer  vapours ; 

On  the  ground 
Gliding  meteorous,  as  evening-mist 
Risen  from  a  river  o'er  the  marish  glides. 
And  gathers  ground  fast  at  the  labourer's  heel 
Homeward  returning,     (Par.  Lost.  B.  12.  v.  628.) 

Now  behold  one  of  his  greatest  imaginations.  The  fallen  demi-gods 
are  assembled  in  Pandaemonium,  waiting  the  return  of  their  "  great 
adventurer"  from  his  "  search  of  worlds." 

He  through  the  midst  unmarked. 
In  show  plebeian  angel  militant 
Of  lowest  order,  passed ;  and  from  the  door 
Of  that  Plutonian  hall,  invisible. 
Ascended  his  high  throne ;  which,  under  state 
Of  richest  texture  spread,  at  the  upper  end 
Was  placed  in  regal  lustre.    Down  awhile 
He  sat,  and  round  about  him  saw  uuseea. 


60  THE  INDICATOR. 

At  last, — as  from  a  cloud,  his  fulgent  head 

And  shape  star-bright  appeared,  or  brighter ;  clad 

With  what  permissive  glory  since  his  fall 

Was  left  him,  or  false  glitter.    ^11  amazed 

At  that  so  sudden  blaze,  the  Stygian  throng 

Bent  their  aspect ;  and  whom  they  wished,  beheld. 

Their  mighty  chief  returned. 

Theie  is  a  piece  of  imagination  in  Apollonius  Rhodius  worthy  of 
Milton  or  Homer.  The  Argonauts,  in  broad  daylight,  are  suddenly 
benighted  at  sea  with  a  black  fog.  They  pray  to  Apollo ;  and  he 
descends  from  heaven,  and  lighting  on  a  rock,  holds  up  his  illustrious 
bow,  which  shoots  a  guiding  light  for  them  to  an  island. 

Spenser  in  a  most  romantic  chapter  of  the  Fairy  Queen  (Book  2), 
seems  to  have  taken  the  idea  of  a  benighting  from  Apollonius,  as  well 
as  to  have  had  an  eye  to  some  passages  of  the  Odyssey ;  but  like  all 
great  poets,  what  he  borrows,  only  brings  worthy  companionship  to 
some  fine  invention  of  his  own.  It  is  a  scene  thickly  beset  with 
horror.  Sir  Guyon,  in  the  course  of  his  voyage  through  the  perilous 
sea,  wishes  to  stop  and  hear  the  Syrens  :  but  the  Palmer  his  com- 
panion dissuades  him ; 

When  suddeinly  a  grosse  fog  over  spred 
With  his  dull  vapour  all  that  desert  has. 
And  heaven's  chearefull  face  enveloped. 
That  all  things  one,  and  one  as  nothing  was. 
And  this  great  universe  seemed  one  confused  mass. 

^  Thereat  they  greatly  were  dismayd,  ne  wist 

How  to  direct  theyr  way  in  darkness  wide, 
But  feared  to  wander  in  that  wasteful!  mist  ^ 

For  tombling  into  mischiefe  unespyde  : 
Worse  is  the  daunger  hidden  then  descride. 
.  Suddeinly  an  innumerable  flight 

Of  harmfull  fowles  about  them  fluttering  cride. 
And  with  theyr  wicked  wings  them  oft  did  smight. 
And  sore  annoyed,  groping  in  that  griesly  night. 

Even  all  the  nation  of  unfortunate 
And  fatall  birds  about  them  flocked  were. 
Such  as  by  nature  men  abborre  and  hate  ; 
The  ill-faced  owle,  deaths  dreadful  messengers  : 
The  hoarse  night-raven,  trump  of  dolefull  drere : 
The  lether-winged  batt,  dayes  enimy  :     ■ 
The  ruefuU  stritch,  still  waiting  on  the  here  : 
The  whistler  shrill,  that  whoso  heares  doth  dy  : 
The  hellish  harpies,  prophets  of  sad  destiny: 

All  these,  and  all  that  els  doei  horror  breed. 
About  them' flew,  and  fild  theyr  sayles  with  fear  ; 
Yet  stayd  they  not,  but  forward  did  proceed. 
Whiles  th'  one  did  row,  and  th'  other  stifly  steare. 

Ovid  has  turned  a  mist  to  his  usual  account,  an  amatory  one.  It 
is  where  Jupiter,  to  conceal  his  amour  with  lo,  throws  a  cloud  over 
the  vaUey  of  Tempe.  There  is  a  picture  of  Jupiter  and  lo,  by 
Corregio,  in  which  that  great  artist  has  finely  availed  himself  of  the 
circumstance ;  the  head  of  the  father  of  gods  and  men  coming  pla- 
cidly out  of  the  cloud,  upon  the  young  lips  of  lo,  like  the  very  benig- 
nity of  creation. 

The  poet  who  is  the  most  conversant  with  mists,  is  Ossian,  who 


THE  INDICATOR,  61 

Was  a  native  of  the  north  of  Scotland  or  Ireland.     But  we  have  not 
his  virorks  by  usj  and  must  give  a  specimen*or  two  next  week. 

We  must  mention  another  instance  of  the  poetical  use  of  a  mist, 
if  it  is  only  to  indulge  ourselves  in  one  of  those  masterly  passages  of 
Dante,  in  which  he  contrives  to  unite  minuteness  of  detail  with  the 
most  grand  and  sovereign  impressiveness.  It  is  in  a  lofty  comparison 
of  the  planet  Mars  looking  through  morning  vapours ;  the  reader 
vrill  see  with  what  (Pur,  Canto  2,  v,  10).  Dante  and  his  guide  Virgil 
have  just  left  the  infernal  regions,  ^nd  are  lingering  on  a  solitary 
sea-shore  in  purgatory  j  which  reminds  us  of  that  still  and  far- 
thoughted  verse — 

Lone  sitting  by  the  shores  of  old  romance. 
But  to  our  English-like  Italian, 

Noi  aravdm  lungh '  esso  '  1  mare  ancora,  &c. 

That  solitary  shore  we  still  kept  on, 

Like  men,  who  musing  on  their  journey,  stay 

At  rest  in  body,  yet  in  heart  ave  gone ;  ' 

When  lo,  as  at  the  early  dawn  of  day, 

Red  Mars  looks  deepening  through  the  foggy  heat, 

Down  in  the  west,  far  o'er  the  watery  way; 
So  did  mine  eyes  behold  (so  mfiy  they  yet) 

A  light,  which  came  so  swiftly  o'er  the  sea. 

That  never  wing  with  such  a  fervour  beat.  , 

I  did  but  turn  to  ask  what  it  might  be 

Of  my  sage  leader,  when  it's  orb  had  got 

More  large  meanwhile,  and  came  more  gloriously : 
And  by  degrees,  I  saw  I  knew  not  what 

Of  white  about  it ;  and  beneath  the  white 

Another.    My  great  master  uttered  not 
One  word,  till  those  first-issuing  candours  bright 

Fanned  into  wings  ;  but  soon  as  he  had  found 

Who  was  the  mighty  voyager  now  in  sight. 
He  cried  aloud,  "  Down,  down,  upon  the  ground  : 

It  is  God's  Angel."  * 

*  These  are  the  famous  terzetti  or  triplets  of  the  Italians,  which  arelinked  together 
like  a  chain ;  the  fresh  rhyme  in  the  middle  of  every  stanza  being  connected  with 
the  first  and  last  lines  of  the  next.  We  think  we  recollect  that  Mr.  Hayley  has 
given  a  specimen  of  a  translation  of  Dante  in  the  original  measure.  If  not,  the 
present  one  is  perhaps  the  first  that  has  appeared  in  the  language ;  which  we 
mention,  of  course,  as  a  mere  curiosity. 


THE  SHOEMAKER  OF  VEYROS. 
A  PORTUGUESE  TRADITrON. 

In  the  time  of  the  old  kings  of  Portugal,  Don  John,  a  natural  son 
of  the  reigning  prince,  was  governor  of  the  town  of  Veyros,  in  the 
province  of  Alentejo.  The  town  was  situate  (perhaps  is  there  still), 
upon  a  mountain,  at  the  foot  of  which  runs  a  river ;  and  at  a  little 
distance  there  was  a  ford  over  it,  under  another  eminence.  The  bed 
of  the  river  thereabouts  was  so  high  as  to  form  a  shallow  sandy  place ; 
and  in  that  clear  spot  of  water,  the  maidens  of  Veyros,  both  of  high 
rank  and  humble,  used  to  wash  their  clothes. 

It  happened  one  day,  that  Don  John^  riding  out  with  a  eompahy. 


«e  THE  INDICATOR. 

came  to  the  spot  at  the  time  the  young  women  were  so  employed : 
and  being,  says  our  author,  "  a  young  and  lusty  gallant,"  he  fell  to 
jesting  with  his  followers  upon  the  bare  legs  of  the  busy  girls,  who 
had  tucked  up  their  clothes,  as  usual,  to  their  work.  He  passed  along 
the  river ;  and  all  his  -company  had  not  yet  gone  by,  when  a  lass  in  a 
red  petticoat,  while  tucking  it  up,  shewed  her  legs  somewhat  high ; 
and  clapping  her  hand  on  her  right  calf,  said  loud  enough  to  be  heard 
by  the  riders,  ''  Here's  a  white  leg,  girls,  for  the  Master  of  Avis."* 

These  words,  spoken  probably  out  of  a  little  lively  bravado,  upon 
t3ie  strength  of  the  governor's  having  gone  by,  were  repeated  to  him 
when  he  got  home,  together  with  the  action  that  accompanied  them : 
upon  which  the  young  lord  fejt  the  eloquence  of  the  speech  so  deeply, 
that  he  contrived  to  have  the  fair  speaker  brought  to  him  in  private  j 
and  the  consequence  was,  that  our  lively  natural  son,  and  his  sprightly 
challenger,  had  another  natural  son. 

Ines  (for  that  was  the  girl's  name)  was  the  daughter  of  a  shoemaker 
in  Veyros  j  a  man  of  very  good  account,  and  wealthy.  Hearing  how 
his  daughter  had  been  sent  for  to  the  young  governor's  house  ;  and 
that  it  was  her  own  light  behaviour,  which  subjected  her  to  what  he 
was  assured  she  willingly  consented  to  ;  he  took  it  so  to  heart,  that 
at  her  return  home,  she  was  driven  by  him  from  the  house,  with  every 
species  of  contumely  and  spurning.  After  this,  he  never  saw  her 
more.  And  to  prove  to  the  world  and  to  himself,  that  his  severity 
was  a  matter  of  principle,  and  not  a  mere  indulgence  of  his  own 
passions,  he  never  afterwards  lay  in  a  bed,  nor  eat,  at  a  table,  nor 
changed  his  linen,  nor  cut  his  hair,  nails,  or  beard  j  which  latter 
grew  to  such  a  length,  reaching  below  his  knees,  that  the  people 
used  to  call  him  Barbadon,  or  Old  Beardy. 

In  the  meantime,  his  grandson,  called  Don  Alphonso,  not  only 
grew  to  a  man,  but  was  created  Duke  of  Braganza ;  his  father  Don 
John  having  been  elected  to  the  crown  of  Portugal;  which  he  wore 
after  such  noble  fashion,  to  the  great  good  of  his  country,  as  to  be 
surnamed  the  Memorable.  Now  the  town  of  Veyros  stood  in  the 
middle  of  seven  or  eight  others,  all  belonging  to  the  young  Duke, 
fram  whose  palace  at  Villa  Viciosa  it  was  but  four  leagues  distant. 
He  therefore  had  good  intelligence  of  the  shoemaker  his  grandfather  j 
and  being  of  a  humane  aind  truly  generous  spirit,  the  accounts  he 
received  of  the  old  man's  way  of  life  made  him  at  last  extremely 
desirous  of  paying  him  a  visit.  He  accordingly  went  \vith  a  retinue 
to  Veyros ;  and  meeting  Barbadon  in  the  streets,  he  alighted  from 
his  horse,  bareheaded;  and  in  the  presence  of  that  stately  company 
and  the  people,  asked  the  old  man  his  blessing.  The  shoemaker, 
astonished  at  this  sudden  spectacle,  and  at  the  strange  contrast  which 
it  ftlmished  to  his  humble  rank,  stared  in  a  bewildered  manner  upon 
the  unknown  personage,  who  thus  knelt  to  him  in  the  public  way  j 
and  said,  "  Sir,  do  you  mock  me?"  "  No,"  answered  the  Duke; 
''May  God  so  help  me,  as  I  do  not :  but  in  earnest  I  crave  I  may 
kiss  your  hand  and  receive  your  blessing,  for  I  am  your  grandson, 

*  An  order  of  knighthood,  of  which  Don  John  was  Master. 


THE  INDICATOR.  6^ 

and  son  to  Ines  your  daughter,  conceived  by  the  king,  my  lord  and 
father."  No  sooner  had  the  shoemaker  heard  these  words,  than  he 
clapped  his  hands  before  his  eyes,  and  said,  "  God  bless  me  from 
ever  beholding  the  son  of  so  wicked  a  daughter  as  mine  was !  And 
yet,  forasmuch  as  you  are  not  guilty  of  her  offence,  hold ;  take  my 
hand  and  my  blessing,  in  the  name  of  the  Father,  and  of  the  Son> 
and  of  the  Holy  Ghost."  So  saying,  he  laid  one  of  his  old  hands  upon 
the  young  man's  hedd,  blessing  him  3  but  neither  the  Duke  nor  his 
followers  could  persuade  him  to  take  the  other  away  from  his  eyes  j 
neither  would  he  talk  with  him  a  word  more.  In  this  spirit,  shortly 
after,  he  died :  and  just  before  his  death,  he  directed  a  tomb  to  be 
made  for  him,  on  which  were  sculptured  the  tools  belonging  to  his 
trade,  with  this  epitaph : — 

This  sepulchre  Barbadon  caused  to  be  made, 
(Being  of  Veyros,  a  shoemaker  by  his  trade) 
For  himself  and  the  rest  of  his  race. 
Excepting  his  daughter  Ines  in  any  case.* 

The  author  says  that  he  has  "  heard  it  reported  by  the  ancientest 
persons,  that  the  fourth  Duke  of  Braganza,  Don  James,  son  to 
Donna  Isabel,  sister  to  the  King  Don  Emanuel,  caused  that  tomb 
to  be  defaced,  being  the  sepulchre  of  his  fourth  grandfather."  f 

As  for  the  daughter,  the  conclusion  of  whose  story  comes  lagging 
in  like  a  penitent,  "  she  continued,  "  says  the  writer,  "  after  she  was 
delivered  of  that  son,  a  very  chaste  and  virtuous  woman  5  and  the 
king  made  her  commandress  of  Santos,  a  most  honourable  place,  and 
very  plentiful  5  to  the  which  none  but  princesses  were  admitted, 
living,  as  it  were,  abbesses  and  princesses  of  a  monastery  built  with- 
out the  walls  of  Lisbon,  called  Santos,  that  is.  Saints,  founded  by 
reason  of  some  martyrs  that  were  martyred  there.  And  the  religious 
women  of  that  place  have  liberty  to  marry  with  the  knights  of  their 
order,  before  they  enter  into  tliat  holy  profession." 

The  rest  of  our  author's  remarks  are  in  too  curious  a  spirit  to  be 
omitted.  "  In  this  monastery,"  he  says,  "  the  same  Donna  Ines 
died,  leaving  behind  her  a  glorious  reputation  for  her  virtue  and  holir 
ness.  Observe,  gentle  reader,  the  constancy  that  this  Portuguese,  a 
shoemaker,  continued  in,  loathing  to  behold  the  honourable  estate  of 
his  grandchild,  nor  would  any  more  acknowledge  his  daughter,  hav- 
ing been  a  lewd  woman,  for  purchasing  advancement  with  dishonour. 
This  considered,  you  will  not  wonder  at  the  Count  Julian,  that 

*  We  have  retained  the  homely  translation  of  our  informant,  as  most  likely 
to  resemble  the  cast  of  the  original.  His  account  of  the  story  is  to  be  found  in 
the  Supplement  to  the  Adventui-es  of  Don  Sebastion:  Harleiaa  Miscellany,  Vol.2. 
We  omitted  to  mention  last  week,  that  the  ground-work  of  the  article  headed 
Gilbert !  Gilbert !  was  from  Turner's  History  of  England  from  the  Norman  Con- 
quest to  the  Accession  of  Edward  the  First:  Chap.  9.  We  thank  the  corres- 
pondent who  has  sent  us  the  account  of  Gilbert  Becket's  mother,  from  the 
Quadrilogus,  which  is  Mr.  Turner's  own  authority ;  but  he  will  doubtless  per- 
ceive, that  we  cannot  afford  room  to  indulge  in  extracts,  the  main  spirit  of  which 
was  already  been  given. 

f-  It  appears  by  this,  that  the  Don  John  of  the  tradition  is  John  the  1st,  who 
was  elected  king  of  Portugal,  and  became  famous  for  his  great  qualities  ;  aod 
that  his  son  by  the  alleged  shoemaker's  daughter  was  his  successor,  Alpi^onso 
the  5th. 


64  ~  THE  INDICATOR. 

jjlagued  Spain,  and  executed  the  king  Roderigo  for  forcing  his 
daughter  la  Cava.  The  example  of  this  shoemaker  is  especially  wor- 
thy the  noting,  and  deeply  to  be  considered  j  for,  besides  that  it 
makes  good  our  assertion,  it  teaches  the  higher  not  to  disdain  the 
lower,  as  long  as  they  be  virtuous  and  lovers  of  honour.  It  may  be, 
that  this  old  man,  for  his  integrity,  rising  from  a  virtuous  zeal, 
merited  that  a  daughter  coming  by  descent  from  his  grandchild, 
should  be  m»de  Queen  of  Castile,  and  the  mother  of  great  Isabel, 
grandmother  to  the  Emperor  Charles  the  Fifth,  and  Ferdinando." 

Alas  !  a  pretty  posterity  our  shoemaker  had,  in  Philip  the  2d  and 
his  successors, —  a  race  more  suitable  to  his  severity  against  his 
child,  than  his  blessing  upon,  his  grandchild.  Old  Barbadon  was  a, 
fine  fellow  too,,  after  his  fashion.  We  do  not  know  how  he  recon- 
ciled his  unforgiving  conduct  with  his  Christianity  3  but- he  had  enough 
precedents  on  that  point.  What  we  admire  in  him  is,  his  shewing 
that  he  acted  out  of  principle,  and  did  not  mistake  passion  for  it. 
His  crepidarian  sculptures  indeed  are  not'  so  well  j  but  a  little  vanity, 
may  be  allowed  to  mingle  with  and  soften  such  edge-tools  of  self- 
denial,  as  he  chose  to  handle.  His  treatment  of  his  daughter  was 
ignorant,  and  in  wiser  times  would  have  been  brutal ;  especially 
when  it  is  considered  how  much  the  conduct  of  children  is  modified 
by  education  and  other  circumstances :  but  then  a  brutal  man  woiUd 
not  have  accompanied  it  with  such  voluntary  suffering  of  his  own. 
Neither  did  Barbadon  leave  his  daughter  to  take  her  chance  in  the 
wide  world,  thinking  of  tfie  evils  she  might  be  enduring,  only  to  give 
a  greater  zest  of  fancied  pity  to  the  contentedness  of  his  cruelty. 
He  knew  she  was  well  taken  care  of  j  and  if  she  was  not  to  have  the 
enjoyment  of  his  society,  he  was  determined  that  it  should  be  a  very, 
uncomfortable  one  to  himself.  He  knew  that  she  lay  on  a  princely 
bed,  while  he  would  have  none  at  all.  He  knew  that  she  was  served 
upon  gold  and  silver,  while  he  renounced  his  old  chesnut  table, — the 
table  at  which  she  used  to  sit.  He  knew  while  he  sat  looking  at  his 
old  beard  and  the  wilful  sordidness  of  his  hands,  that  her  locks  and 
her  fair  limbs  were  objects  of  worship  to  the  gallant  and  the  great. 
And  so  he  set  off  his  destitutions  against  her  over-possession  j  and 
took  out  the  punishment  he  gave  her,  in  revenge  upon  himself.  This 
was  the  instinct  of  a  man  who  loved  a  principle,  but  hated  nobody : 
-—of  a  man,  who  in  a  wiser  time,  would  have  felt  the  wisdom  of 
kindness.  Thus  his  blessing  upon  his  grandchild  becomes  consistenj 
with  his  cruelty  to  his  child  :  and  his  living  stock  was  a  fine  one  in 
spite  of  him.  His  daughter  shewed  a  sense  of  the  wound  she  had 
given  such  a  father,  by  relinquishing  the  sympathies  she  loved, 
because  they  had  hurt  him  :  and  her  son,  worthy  of  such  a  grand- 
father and  such  a  daughter,  and  refined  into  a  gracefulness  of  know- 
ledge by  education,  thought  it  no  mean  thing  or  vulgar  to  kneel  to 
the  grey-headed  artisan  in  the  street,  and  beg  the  blessing  of  his 
honest  hand.  » 

Orders  received  by  the  Booksellers,  by  the  Newsmen,  and  by  the  Publisher, 

Joseph  Appleyard,  19,  Catherine-street,  Strand. — Price  Two-pence. 

Printed  by  C.  H.  ReynelL,  No.  45,  Broad-street,  Golden-square,  London. 


THE    INDICATOR. 


There  he  arriving-  round  ahout  doth  die, 
And  talces  survey  with  busie,  curious  eye: 
Now  this,  now  tli3,t,  he  tasteth  tenderly. 

Spekser. 


No.  IX.— WEDNESDAY,  DECEMBER  8th,  ISia, 


MORE  NEWS  OF  ULYSSES. 


Talking  the  other  day  with  a  friend  about  Dante,  he  observed, 
that  whenever  so  great  a  poet  toli  us  any  thing  in  addition  or  con- 
tinuation of  an  ancient  story,  he  had  a  right  to  be  regarded  as  classical 
authority.  For  instance,  said  he,  when  he  tells  us  of  that  charac- 
teristic death  of  Ulysses  in  one  of  the  books  of  his  Inferno,  we  ought 
to  receive  the  information  as  autlientic,  and  be  glad  that  we  have 
more  news  of  Ulysses  than  we  looked  for. 

We  thought  this  a  happy  remark,  and  instantly  turned  with  him 
to  the  passage  in  question  ;  for  not  having  read  Dante  regularly,  we 
had  passed  it  over  so  slightly  as  not  to  remember  it.  .  Yet  it  is 
a  striking  one,  as  the  reader  will  see.  The  last  account  of  Ulysses 
upon  which  we  may  fairly  reckoi:,  in  the  ancient  poets,  is  his  sudden 
rcrappearance  before  the  suitors  at  Ithaca,  and  his  consummate  aiid 
godlike  victory  over  their  crest-fallen  insolence.  There  is  something 
more  told  of  him,  it  is  true,  before  the  Odyssey  concludes  ;  but  with 
the  exception  of  his  visit  to  his  aged  father,  our  memory  scarcely 
wishes. to  retain  it^  nor  does  it  controvert  the  general  impi'ession 
left  upon  us,  that  the  w^andcring  hero  is  victorious  over  his  domestic 
enemies  ;  and  reposes  at  last,  and  for  life,  in  the  bosom  of  his  family. 

The  lesser  poets  however  could  not  let  him  alone.  Homer  leaves 
the  general  impression  upon  one's  mind,  as  to  the  close  of  his  life  f 
but  there  are  plenty  of  obscurer  fables  aboxit  it  stUl.  We  have  spe»- 
cimens  in  modern  times  of  this  propensity  never  to  have  done  with  a 
good  story ;  which  is  natural  enough,  though  not  very  wise  3  nor 
are  the  best  writers  likely  to  meddle  with  it.  Thus  Cervantes  was 
plagued  with  a  spurious  Quixot.e ;  and  our  circulating  libraries  have 
the  adventures  of  Tom  Jones  in  his  Married  State.  The  ancient 
writers  on  the  present  subject,  availing  themselves  of  an  obscure 
prophecy  of  Tiresias,  who  tells  Ulysses  on  his  visit  to  h^ll,  that 
his  old  enemy  the  sea  would  be  the  death  of  him  at  last,  bring 
over  the  sea  Telegonus,  his  son  by  the  goddess  Circe,  who  gets  into 
a  scuffle  with  the  Ithacans,  and  kills  his  father  unknowingly.  It  is 
added,  that  Telegonus  afterwards  returned  to  his  mother's  island, 
taking  Penelope  and  his  half-brother  Telemachus  with  him  3  and 


66  THE  INDICATOR. 

here  a  singular  arrangement  takes  place,  more  after  the  fashion  of 
a  modern  Catholic  dynasty,  than  an  ancient  heathen  one  :  for  while 
^dipus  was  fated  to  undergo  such  dreadful  misfortunes  for  marrying 
his  mother  without  the  knowledge  of  either  party,  Minerva  herself 
comes  down  from  heaven,  on  the  present  occasion,  to  order  Telego- 
nusj  the  son  of  Ulysses,  to  marry  his  father's  wife ;  the  other  son, 
at  the  same  time,  making  a  suitable  match  with  his  father's  mistress, 
Circe,  Telemachus  seems  to  have  had  the  best  of  this  extraordinary 
bargain,  for  Circe  was  a  goddess,  consequently  always  young ;  and 
yet  to  perplex  these  windings-up  still  more,  Telemachus  is  represented 
by  some  as  marrying  Circe's  daughter,  and  killing  his  immortal 
mother-in-law.  Nor  does  the  character  of  the  chaste  and  enduring 
Penelope  escape  in  the  confusion.  Instead  of  waiting  her  husband's 
return  in  that  patient  manner,  she  is  reported  to  have  been  over- 
hospitable  to  all  the  suitors ;  the  consequence  of  which  was  a  son 
called  Pan,  being  no  less  a  personage  than  the  god  Pan  himself,  or 
Nature  5  a  fiction,  as  Lord  Bacon  says,  "^applied  very  absurdly  and  in- 
discreetly." There  are  different  stories  respecting  her  lovers  ;  but  it  is 
reported  that  when  Ulysses  returned  from  Ti'oy,  he  divorced  her  for 
incontinence ;  and  that  she  fled,  and  passed  her  latter  days  in  Man- 
tinea.  Some  even  go  so  far  as  to  say,  that  her  father  Icarius  had 
attempted  to  destroy  her  when  young,  because  the  oracle  had  told  him 
that  she  would  be  the  most  dissolute  of  the  family.  This  was  proba- 
bly invented  by  the  comic  writers  out  of  a  buffoon  malignity ;  for 
there  are  men,  so  foolishly  incredulous  with  regard  to  principle,  that 
the  reputation  of  it,  even  in  a  fiction,  makes  them  impatient. 

Now  it  is  impossible  to  say  whether  Dante  would  have  left  Ulysses 
quietly  with  Penelope  after  all  his  sufferings,  had  he  known  them 
as  described  in  Homer.  The  old  Florentine,  though  wilful  enough 
when  he  wanted  to  dispose  of  a  modern's  fate,  had  great  veneration 
for  his  ancient  predecessors.  At  all  events,  he  was  not  acquainted 
with  Homer's  works.  They  did  not  make  their  way  again  into  Italy 
till  a  little  later.  But  there  were  Latin  writers  extant,  who  might 
have  informed  him  of  the  other  stories  relative  to  Ulysses ;  and  he 
saw  nothing  in  them,  to  hinder  him  from  giving  the  great  wanderer 
a  death  of  his  own. 

He  has  accordingly,  with  great  attention  to  nature,  made  him 
impatient  of  staying  at  home,  after  a  life  of  such  adventure  and  ex- 
citeftient.  But  we  will  relate  the  story  in  his  own  order.  He  begins 
it  with  one  of  his  most  romantic  pieces  of  wildness.  The  poet  and 
his  guide  Virgil  are  making  the  best  of  their  difiicult  path  along  a 
ridge  of  the  craggy  rock,  that  overhangs  the  eighth  gulph  of  hell : 
when  Dante,  looking  down,  sees  the  abyss  before  him  full  of  fliek- 
ering  lights ;  as  numerous,  he  says,  as  the  fire-flies,  which  a  peasant, 
reposing  on  a  hill,  sees  filling  the  valley,  of  a  hot  evening.  Every 
flame  shot  about  separately ;  and  he  knew  that  some  terrible  mystery 
or  other  accompanied  it.  As  he  leaned  down  from  the  rock,  grasping 
one  of  the  crags,  in  order  to  look  closer,  his  guide  who  perceived  his 
earnestness,  said,  "  Within  those  fires  are  spirits ;  every  one  swathed 


THE  INDICATOR.  67 

in  what  is  burning  him."  Dante  told  him,  that  he  had  already 
guessed  as  much  ;  and  pointing  to  one  of  them  in  particular,  asked 
who  was  in  that  firC;,  which  was  divided  at  top,  as  though  it  had  ^ 
ascended  from  the  ftmeral-pile  of  the  hating  Theban  brothers. 
"^  Within  that,"  answered  Virgil,  "  are  Diomed  and  Ulysses  ;  who 
speed  together  now  to  their  own  misery,  as  they  used  to  do  to  that  of 
others."  They  were  suffering  the  penalty  of  the  various  frauds  they 
had  perpetrated  in  concert ;  such  as  the  contrivance  of  the  Trojan 
horse,  and  the  plunder  of  the  Palladium.  Dante  entreats  with  the 
greatest  earnestness,  that  if  those  who  are  within  the  sparkling  horror 
can  speak,  it  may  be  made  to  come  near.  Virgil  says  it  shall ;  but 
begs  the  Florentine  not  to  question  it  himself  5  as  the  spirits,  being 
Greek,  might  be  shy  of  holding  discourse  with  him.  When  the  flame 
has  come  near  enough  to  be  spoken  to,  Virgil  addresses  the  "  two 
within  one  fire  5"  and  requests  them,  if  he  ever  deserved  anything  of 
them  as  a  poet,  great  or  little,  that  they  would  not  go  away,  till  one 
of  them  had  told  him  how  he  came  into  that  extremity. 

At  this,  says  Dante,  the  greater  horn  of  the  old  fire  began  to  lap 
hither  and  thither,  murmuring ;  like  a  flame  struggling  with  the 
wind.  The  top  then,  yearning  to  and  fro,  like  a  tongue  trying  to 
speak,  threw  out  a  voice,  and  said  :  '\  When  I  departed  from  Circe, 
who  withdrew  me  to  her  for  more  than  a  year  in  the  neighbourhood 
of  Gaieta,  before  Eneas  had  so  named  it ;  neither  the  sweet  company 
of  my  son,  nor  pious  affection  for  my  old  father,  nor  the  long-owed 
love  with  which  I  ought  to  have  gladdened  Peiielope,  cquld  conquer 
the  ardour  that  was  in  me  to  become  wise  in  knowledge  of  the  world, 
of  man's  vices  and  his  virtue.  I  put  forth  into  the  great  open  deep 
with  only  one  bark,  and  the  small  remaining  crew  by  whom  I  had 
not  been  left.  I  saw  the  two  shores  on  either  side,  as  far  as  Spain 
and  Morocco ;  and  the  island  of  Sardinia,  and  the  other  isles  which 
the  sea  there  bathes  round  about.  Slowly  we  went,  my  companions  and 
I,  for  we  were  old ;  till  at  last  we  came  to  that  narrow  outlet,  where 
Hercules  set  up  his  pillars,  that  no  man  might  go  further.  I  left  Seville 
on  the  right  hand  :  on  the  other  I  had  left  Ceuta.  O  brothers,  said 
I,  who  through  a  hundred  thousand  perils  are  at  length  arrived  at 
the  west,  deny  not  to  the  short  waking  day  that  yet  remains  to  our 
senses,  an  insight  into  the  unpeopled  world,  setting  your  backs  upon 
the  sun.  Consider  the  stock  from  which  ye  sprang :  ye  were  not 
made  to  live  like  the  brute  beasts,  but  to  follow  virtue  and  know- 
ledge. I  so  sharpened  my  companions  with  this  little  speech  on  our 
way,  that  it  would  have  been  difficult  for  me  to  have  withheld  them, 
if  I  would.  We  left  the  morning  right  in  our  stern,  and  made  wings 
of  our  oars  for  the  idle  flight,  always  gaining  upon  the  left.  The 
night  no\v  beheld  all  the  stars  of  the  other  pole ;  while  our  own  was 
so  low,  that  it  arose  not  out  of  the  ocean-floor.  Five  times  the  light 
had  risen  underneath  the  moon,  and  five,  times  fallen,  since  we  put 
forth  upon  the  great  deep  5  when  we  descried  a  dim  mountain  in  the 
distance,  vv^hich  appeared  higher  to  me  than  ever  I  had  seen  any  before. 
We  rejoiced,  and  as  soon  mourned  :  for  there  sprung  a  whirlwind 


68  THE  INDICATOR. 

from  the  new  landj  and  struck  the  foremost  frame  of  our  vessel. 
Three  times,  with  all  the  waters,  it  whirled  us  round  :  at  the  fourth 
it  dashed  the  stern  up  in  aii*,  and  the  prow  downwards  3  till,  as 
seemed  fit  to  others,  the  ocean  closed  above  our  heads." 

Ti'e  volte  il  fd  girar  con  tutte  1'  acque : 
A  la  quarta  levar  la  poppa  in  suso, 
E  la  prora  ire  in  giu,  come  altrui  piacque, 
Infin  eh  '1  mar  fu  sopra  noi  richiuso. 

Why  poor  Ulysses  should  find  himself  in  hell  after  his  immersion, 
and  be  condemned  to  a  swathing  of  eternal  fire,  while  St.  Dominie, 
who  deluged  Christianity  with  fire  and  blood,  is  called  a  Cherubic 
light,  the  papist,  not  the  poet,  must  explain.  He  puts  all  the  Pagans 
in  hell,  because  however  good  some  of  them  may  have  been,  they 
lived  before  Christ,  and  could  not  worship  God  properly — (debita- 
mente).  But  he  laments  their  state,  and  represents  them  as  suffer- 
ing a  mitigated  punishment :  they  only  live  in  a  state  of  perpetual 
desire  without  hope  (sol  di  tanto  offesi)  !  A  sufficing  misery,  it  must 
be  allowed ;  but  compared  with  the  horrors  he  fancies  for  heretics 
and  others,  undoubtedly  a  great  relief.  Dante,  throughout  his 
extraordinary  work,  gives  many  evidences  of  great  natural  sensibility  j 
and  his  countenance,  as  handed  down  to  us,  as  well  as  the  shade- 
struck  gravity  of  his  poetry  in  general,  shews  the  cuts  and  dis- 
quietudes of  heart  he  must  have  endured.  But  unless  the  occasional 
hell  of  his  own  troubles,  and  his  consciousness  or  the  mutabiUty  of  all 
things,  helped  him  to  discover  the  brevity  of  individual  suffering  as  a 
particular,  and  the  lastingness  of  nature's  benevolence  as  an  univer- 
sal ;  and  thus  gave  his  poem  an  intention  beyond  what  appears  upon 
the  surface;  we  must  conclude,  tliaj:  a  bigoted  education,  and  the 
fierce  party  politics  in  which  he  was  a  leader  and  a  sufferer,  obscured 
the  kind  greatness  of  his  spirit.  It  is  always  to  be  recollected  liow- 
ever,  as  Mr.  Coleridge  has  observed  somewhere  in  other  words,  that 
when  men  consign  each  other  to  eternal  punishment  and  such  like 
horrors,  their  belief  is  rather  a  venting  of  pi'esent  impatience  and  dis- 
like, than  any  thing  which  they  take  it  for.  The  fiercest  Papist  or 
Calvinist  only  flatters  himself  (a  strange  flattery  too  ! )  that  h©-'could 
behold  a  fellow  creature  tumbling  and  shrieking  about  in  eternal  fire. 
He  would  begin  shrieking  himself  in  a  few  minutes  ;  and  think  that 
he  and  all  heaven  ought  to  pass  aAvay,  rather  than  that  one  such 
agony  should  continue.  Tertullian  himself,  when  he  longed  to 
behold  the  enemies  of  his  faith  burning  and  liquefying,  only  meant, 
without  knowing  it,  that  he  was  in  an  excessive  rage  at  not  convinc- 
ing every  body  that  read  him.  Yet,  in  the  mean  time,  these  notions 
disturb  humanity,  and  degrade  the  Divine  Spirit. 


FAR  COUNTRIES. 


Imagination,  though  no  mean  thing,  is  not  a  proud  one.  If  it 
looks  down  from  its  wings  upon  common  places,  it  only  the'  more 
perceives  the  vastness  of  the  region  about  it.      Tlie  infinity  into 


THE  INDICATOR.  69 

which  it's  flight  carries  it,  might  indeed  throw  back  upon  it  a  too 
great  sense  of  insignificance,  did  not  Beanty  or  Moral  Justice, 
with  it's  equal  eye,  look  through  that  blank  aspect  of  power,  and  re- 
assure it  5  shewing  it,  that  there  is  a  power  as  much  above  power 
itself,  as  the  thought  that  reaches  to  all,  is  to  the  hand  that  can 
touch  only  thus  far. 

But  we  do  not  wish  to  get  into  this  tempting  region  of  speculation, 
just  now.  We  only  intend  to  shew  a  particular  instance,  in  which 
imagination  instinctively  displays  it!s  natural  humility :  we  mean,  in 
the  fondness  which  imaginative  times  and  people  have  shewn  for 
what  is  personally  remote  from  them ;  for  what  is  opposed  to  their 
own  individual  consciousness,  even  in  range  of  space,  in  farness  of 
situation. 

There  is  no  surer  mark  of  a  vain  people  than  their  treating  other 
nations  with  contempt,  especially  those  of  whom  they  know  least. 
It  is  better  to  verify  the  proverb,  and  take  every  thing  unknown  for 
.magnificent,  rather  than  predetermine  it  to  be  worthless.  The  gain 
is  greater.  The  instinct  is  more  judicious.  When  we  mention  the 
French  as  an  instance,  we  do  not  mean  to  be  invidious.  Most  nations 
have  their  good  as  well  as  bad  features ;  and  in  Vanity  Fair  there  are 
many  booths. 

The  French,  not  long  ago,  praised  one  of  their  neighbours  so 
highly,  that  the  latter  is  suspected  to  have  lost  as  much  modesty,  as 
the  former  gained  by  it.  But  they  did  this  as  a  set-off  against  their 
own  despots  and  bigots.  When  they  again  became  the  greatest 
power  in  Europe,  they  had  a  relapse  of  their  old  egotism.  The 
French,  though  an  amiable  and  intelligent  people,  are  not  an  imagi- 
native  one.  The  greatest  height  they  go  is  in  a  balloon.  They  get 
no  farther  than  France,  let  them  go  where  they  will.  They  "  run 
the  great  circle  and  are  still  at  home,"  like  the  squirrel  in  his  rolling 
cage.  Instead  of  going  to  Nature  in  their  poetry,  they  would  make 
her  come  to  them,  and  dress  hei'self  at  their  last  new  toilet.  In 
practical  philosophy  and  metaphysics,  they  divest  themselves  of  gross 
prejudices,  and  then  think  they  are  in  as  graceful  a  state  of  nakedness 
cis  Adam  and  Eve. 

At  the  time  when  the  French  had  this  fit  upon  them  of  praising 
the  English  (whicli  was  nevertheless  the  honester  one  of  the  tw^o), 
they  took  to  praising  the  Chinese  for  numberless  unknown  qualities. 
This  seems  a  contradiction  to  the  near-sightedness  we  speak  of :  but 
the-^-eason  they  praised  them  was,  that  the  Chinese  had  the  merit  of 
unbounded  religious  toleration;  a  great  and  extraordinary  one 
certainly,  antf  not  the  less  so,  for  having  been,  to  all  appearance,  the 
woi'k  of  one  man.  All  the  romance  of  China,  such  as  it  was, — any 
thing  in  which  they  differed  from  the  French, — their  dress,  their 
porcelain  towers,  their  Great  Wall, — was  nothing.  It  was  the  parti- 
cular agreement  with  the  philosophers. 

It  happened  curiously  enough,  that  they  could  not  have  selected 
for  their  panegyric  a  nation  apparently  more  contemptuous  of  others ; 
or  at  least  more  self-satisfied  and  unimaginative.  The  Chinese  are 
cunning  and  ingenious ;  and  have  a  great  talent  at  bowing  out  am- 


70    .  THE  INDICATOR.  , 

bassadors  who  come  to  visit  them.  But  it  is  somewhat  inconsistent 
with  what  appears  to  be  their  general  character;,  that  they  should 
pay  strangers  even  this  equivocal  compliment ;  for  under  a  prodigious 
mask  of  politeness^  they  are  not  slow  to  evince  their  contempt 
of  other  nations,  whenever  any  coinparison  is  insinuated  with  the 
subjects  of  the  Brother  of  the  Sun  and  Moon.  The  knowledge  they 
respect  in  us  most^,  is  that  of  gun-making,  and  of  the  East  Indian  pas- 
.sage.  When  our  countrymen  shewed  them  a  map  of  the  earthy,  they 
enquired  for  China  >  and  on  finding  that  it  only  made  a  little  piece 
in  a  corner,  could  not  contain  their  derision.  They  thought  that  it 
was  the  main  territory  in  the  middle,  the  apple  of  the  world's  eye. 

On  the  other  hand,  the  most  imaginative  nations,  in  their  highest 
times,  have  had  a  respect  for  remote  countries.  It  is  a  mistake  to 
suppose  that  the  ancient  term  barbarian,  applied  to  foreigners, 
suggested  the  meaning  we  are  apt  to  give  it.  It  may  have  gathered 
some  such  insolence  with  it  among  the  Romans,  as  they  spread  their 
own  baibarous  power ;  but  the  more  intellectual  Greeks  venerated 
the  countries  from  which  they  brought  the  elements  of  their  mytho- 
logy and  philosophy.  The  philosopher  travelled  into  Egypt,  like  a 
son  to  see  his  father.  The  merchant  heard  in'Phoenicia  the  far- 
brought  stories  of  other  realms,  which  he  told  to  his  delighted 
countrymen.  It  is  supposed,  that  the  mortal  pari;  of  Mentor  in  the 
Odyssey  was  drawn  from  one  of  these  voyagers.  When  Anacharsis 
the  Scythian  was  reproached  with  his  native  place  by  an  unworthy 
Greek,  he  said,  '^  My  ^ountry  may  be  a  shame  to  me,  but  you  are  a 
shame  to  your  country."  Greece  had  a  lofty  notion  of  the  Persians 
and  the  Great  King,  till  Xerxes  came  over  to  teach  it  better,  and 
betrayed  the  softness  of  their  skulls.  . 

It  was  the  same  with  the  Arabians,  at  the  time  when  they  had  the 
chief  accomplishments  of  the  world  to  themselves  ;  as  we  see  by  their 
delightful  tales.  Every  thing  shines  with  them  in  the  distance,  like 
a  sunset.  What  an  amiable  people  are  their  Persians  !  What  a 
wonderful  place  is  the  island  of  Serendib !  You  would  think  nothing 
could  be  finer  than  the  Caliph's  city  of  Bagdat,  till  you  hear  of  Grand 
Cairo ;  and  how  has  that  epithet  and  that  name  towered  in  the 
imagination  of  all  those,  who  have  not  had  the  misfortune  to  see  the 
modern  city  !  Sindbad  was  respected,  like  Ulysses,  because  he  had 
seen  so  many  adventures  and  nations.  So  was  Aboulfaouris  the 
Great  Voyager,  in  the  Persian  Tales.  His  very  name  sounds  like  a 
wonder. 

With  many  a  tempest  had  his  beard  been  shaken. 

It  was  one  of  the  workings  of  the  great  Alfred's  mind,  to  know  about 
far  distant  countries.  There  is  a  translation  by  him  of  a  book  of 
geography ;  and  he  even  employed  people  to  travel ;  a  great  stretch 
of  intellectual  munificence  for  those  times.  About  the  same  period, 
Haroun  al  Raschid  (whom  our  manhood  is  startled  to  find  almost  a 
less  real  person  than  we  thought  him,  for  his  very  reality)  wrote  a 
letter  to  the  Emperor  of  the  West,  Charlemagne.  Here  is  Arabian 
and  Italian  romance,  shaking  hands  in  pei'son ! 


THE  INDICATOR.  71 

The  Crusades  pierced  into  a  new  world  of  remoteness.  We  do  not 
know  whether  those  were  much  benefited,  who  took,  part  in  them  j 
but  for  the  imaginative  persons  remaining  at  home,  the  idea  of  going 
to  Palestine  must  have  been  like  travelling  into  a  supernatural  world. 
When  the  compaign  itself  had  a  good  effect,  it  must  have  been  of  a 
very  fine  and  highly-tempered  description.     Chaucer's  Knight,  had 

been 

Sometime  with  the  lord  of  Palaiiee 

Agen  another  hethen  in  TurJiie  : 

And  evermore  he  had  a  sovereign  price  ; 

And  though  that  he  was  worthy,  he  was  wise. 

And  of  his  port  as  meek  as  is  a  mayde. 

How  like  a  return  from  the  moon  must  have  been  the  re-appear- 
ance of  such  travellers  as  Sir  John  Mandevile,  Marco  Polo,  and 
William  de  Rubruquis,  with  their  news  of  Prester  John,  the  Great 
Mogul,  and  the  Great  Cham  of  Tartary !  The  long- lost  voyager 
must  have  been  like  a  person  consecrated  in  all  the  quarters  of 
heaven.  His  staff  and  his  beard  must  have  looked  like  relics  of  his 
former  self.  The  Venetians,  who  were  some  of  the  earliest  European 
travellers,  have  been  remarked,  among  their  other  amiable  qualities, 
for  their  great  respect  for  strangers.  The  peculiarity  of  their  position, 
aiid  the  absence  of  so  many  things  which  are  commoa-places  to  other 
countries,  such  as  streets,  horses,  and  coaches,  add,  no  doubt,  to 
this  feeling.  But  a  foolish  or  vain  people  would  bnly  feel  a  contempt 
for  what  they  did  not  possess.  Milton,  in  one  those  favourite  pas- 
sages of  his,  in  which  he  turns  a  mere  vocabulary  into  such  grand 
meaning  and  music,  shews  us  whose  old  footing  he  had  delighted  to 
follow.  How  he  enjoys  the  distance ;  emphatically  using  the  words, 
far,  farthest,  and  utmost ! 

—  Embassies  fi'om  regions  far  remote,  ' 

In  various  habits,  on  the  Appian  road. 
Or  on  the  Emilian  ;  some  from  farthest  south, 
.  Syene,  and  where  the  shadow  both  way  falls, 
^  Meroe,  Nilotick  isle  ;  and  more  tc  west. 

The  realm  of  Boechus  to  the  Black-moor  sea  ; 
From  the  Asian  kings,  and  Parthian  among  thepe; 
From  India  and  the  golden  Chersonese, 
And  utmost  Indian  isle  Taprobane. — Farad.  Reg.  B.  4. 

One  of  the  main  helps  to  our  love  of  remoteness  in  general,  is  the 
associations  we  connect  with  it  of  peace  and  quietness.  Whatever 
there  may  be  at  a  distance,  people  feel  as  if  they  should  escape 
from  the  worry  of  their  local  cares.  "  O  that  I  had  wings  like 
a  dove!  then  would  I  fly  away  and  be  at  rest."  The  word  far  is 
often  used  wilfully  in  poetry,  to  render  distance  still  more  distant. 
An  old  English  song  begins — 

In  Irelande  farre  over  the  sea 
There  dwelt  a  bonny  king. 

Thomson,  a  Scotchman,  speaking  of  the  western  isles  of  his  own 
country,  has  that  delicious  line,  full  of  a  dreary  yet  luUi  ng- pleasure : — 

As  when  a  shepherd  of  the  Hebrid  isles, 
Placed  far  amid  the  melancJioly  main. 


ra  THE  INDICATOR. 

In  childhood,  the  total  ignorance  of  the  world,  especially  when  we 
are  brought  up  in  some  confined  spot^  renders  every  thing  beyond 
the  bounds  of  our  dwelling  a  distance  and  a  romance.  Mr.  Lamb,  in 
his  Recollections  of  Christ's  Hospital,  says  that  he  remembers  when  some 
half-dozen  of  his  schoolfellows  set  off,  "  without  map,  card,  or  com- 
pass, on  a  serious  expedition  to  find  out  Philip  QuarlVs  Island."  We 
once  encountered  a  set  of  boys  as  romantic.  It  was  at  no  greater 
distance  than  at  the  foot  of  a  hill  near  Hampstead ;  yet  the  spot  was 
so  perfectly  Cisalpine  to  them,  that  two  of  them  came  up  to  us  with 
looks  of  hushing  eagerness,  and  asked,  "  whether,  on  the  other  side 
of  that  hill  there  were  not  robbers:"  to  which,  the  minor  ad- 
venturer of  the  two  added,  "  And  some  say,  serpents."  They  had 
all  got  bows  and  arrows,  and  were  evidently  hovering  about  the 
place,  betwixt  daring  and  apprehension,  as  on  the  borders  of  some 
wild  region.  We  smiled  to  think  which  it  was  that  husbanded  their 
suburb  wonders  to  more,  advantage,  they  or  we :  for  while  they  peo- 
pled the  place  with  robbers  and  serpents,  w6  were  peopling  it  with 
sylvatts  and  fairies. 

"  So  was  it  when  my  life  began ; 

So  is  it  now  I  am  a  man  ; 

So  be  it  when  I  shall  grow  old. 

Or  let  me  die  I 
The  child  is  father  to  the  man  ; 
And  I  could  wish  my  days  to  be 
Bound  each  to  each  by  natural  piety." 


PASSAGES  FROM  OSSIAN,  ALLUDED  TO  IN  OUR  LAST. 

On  renewing  our  acquaintance  with  Ossian,  we  felt  tempted  to 
go  to  some  length  about  him  ;  but  we  must  reserve  our  criticism  for 
another  time.  The  following  are  as  many  specimens  of  his  uses  of 
mist,  as  we  have  room  for.  The  first  is  very  grand;  the  second  as 
happy  in  it's  analogy;  the  third  is  ghastly,  but  of  more  doubtful 
merit. 

Two  CHIEFS  PARTED  BY  fiiEiR  KING. — "  They  sunk  from  the  king  on  either 
side,  like  two  columns  of  morning  mist,  when  the  sun  rises  between  them  on  his 
glittering  rocks.  Dark  is  their  rolling  on  either  side,  each  toward  its  reedy  pool." 

A  GREAT  ENEMY.—"  I  love  a  foe  like  Cathmor :  his  soul  is  great;  his  arm  is 
strong;  his  battles  are  full  of  fame.  But  the  little  soul  is  like  a  vapour,  that 
hovers  round  the  marshy  lake.  It  never  rises  on  the  green  hrll,  lest  the  winds 
meet  it  there." 

A  TERRIBLE  OMEN. — "  A  mist  rose  slowly  from  the  lake.  It  came,  in  the 
figure  of  an  aged  man,  along  the^ silent  plain.  It's  large  limbs  did  not  move  in 
steps  ;  for  a  ghost  supported  it  in  mid*air.  It  came  towards  Selma's  hall,  and 
dissolved  in  a  shower  of  blood." 


Orders  received  by  the  Booksellers,  by  the  Newsmen,  and  by  the  Publisher, 
Joseph  Appleyard,  19,  Catherine-street,  Strand. — Price  Twopence. 

Printed  by  C.  H.  Reynell,  No.  45,  Broad-street,  Golden-squasp,  Loudon. 


.jifie'ib  sill  ni  bsi-jod 


T  H  E    I N  D I C  A  rO^jSS^ 


There  he  arriving  round  about  doth  flie, 

And  takes  survey  with  busie,  curious  eye': 

Now  this,  now  that,  he  tasteth  tenderly.  '    MlliQ'J^  V'J.'. 


Spensbk.  \6  I'Mi'w 

■■taicjaioo  ci 
_  \[  juckIc  o^y 

No.  X.— WEDNESDAY,  DECEMBER  15th,  lg;iC2rf' 

" I  sorjoiti*   ■ 

A  TALE  FOR  A  CHIMNEY  CORNER. 

A  MAN  who  does  not  contribute  his  quota  of  grim  stories jnow-a-daysj,', 
seems  hardly  to  be  free  of  the  republic  of  letters.  He  is  bound  tO; 
wear  a  death's  head,  as  part  of  his  insignia.  If  he  does  not  frighten> 
every  body,  he  is  nobody.  If  he  does  not  shoclsithe  ladies,  what  can 
be  expected  of  him ?  :       <  j    -  ^7.  ,;('o 

We  confess  we  think  very  cheaply  of  these  stories  in  general,  r 
A  story,  merely  horrible  or  even  aweful,  which  contains  no  sentiment, 
elevating  to  the  human  heart  and  it's  hopes,  is  a  mere  appeal  to  the 
least. judicious,  least  healthy,  and  least  masculine  of  our  passions,  fe.ar., 
They  whose  attention  can  be  gravely  arrested  by  it,  are  in  a  fit  state 
to  receive  any  absurdity  with  their  wits  offj  and  this  is  the  cause, 
why  less  talents  are  required  to  enforce  it,  than  in  any  other  species 
of  composition.  With  this  opinion  of  such  things,  we  may  be  allowed 
to  say,  that  we  would  undertake  to  write  a  dozen  horrible  stories  in 
^  day,  all  of  which  should  make  the  common  worshippers  or  power, 
who  were  not  in  the  very  healthiest  condition,  turn  pale.  We  would 
tell  of  Haunting  Old  Women,  and  Knocking  Ghosts,  and  Solitary 
Lean  Hands,  and  Empusas  on 'One  Leg,  and  Ladies  growing  Longer 
and  Longer,  and  Horrid  Eyes  meeting  us  through  Key-holes,  and 
Plaintive  Heads,  and  Shrieking  Statues,  and  Shocking  Anomalies  of 
Shape,  and  Things  which  when  seen  drove  people  mad ;  and  indi- 
gestion knows  what  besides.  But  who  would  measure  talents  with  a 
leg  of  veal,  or  a  German  sausage. 

Mere  grimness  is  as  easy  as  grinning ;  but  it  requires  something  to 
put  a  handsome  face  on  a  story.  Narratives  becopie  of  suspicious 
merit  in  proportion  as  they  lean  to  Newgate-like  offences,  particu- 
larly of  blood  and  wounds.  A  child  has  a  reasonable  respect  for  a 
Raw-head-and-bloody-bones,  because  all  images  whatsoever  of  pain 
and  terror  are  new  and  fearful  to  his  inexperienced  age :  but 
sufferings  merely  physical  (unless  sublimated  like  those  of  Philoctetes) 
are  common-places  to  a  grown  man.  Images,  to  become  awful  to  him, 
flaust  be  removed  from  the  grossness  of  the  shambles.  A  death's  head  was 
g,  respectable  thing  in  the  hands  of  a  poring  monk,  or  of  a  nun  com- 


74  THE  INDICATOR. 

pelled  to  avoid  the  idea  of  life  and  society,  or  of  a  hermit  already 
buried  in  the  desart,  Holbein's  Dance  of  Death,  in  which  every 
grinning  Skeleton  leads  along  a  man  of  rank,  from  the  Pope  to  the 
gentleman,  is  a  good  Memento  Mori  y  bxit  there  the  skeletons  have 
an  air  of  the  ludicrous  and  satirical.  If  we  were  threatened  with 
them  in  a  grave  way,  as  spectres,  we  should  have  a  right  t6  ask  how 
they  could  walk  about  without  muscles.  Thus  many  of  the  tales 
written  by  such  authors  as  the  late  Mr.  Lewis,  who  wanted  sentiment 
to  complete  his  talents,  are  quite  puerile.  When  his  spectral  nuns 
go  about  bleeding,  we  think  they  ought  in, decency  to  have  applied 
to  some  ghost  of  a  surgeon.  His  little  Grey  Men,  who  sit  munching 
hearts,  are  of  a  piece  with  fellows  that  eat  cats  for  a  wager. 

Stories  that  give  mental  pain  to  no  purpose,  or  to  very  little  pur- 
pose compared  with  the  unpleasant  ideas  they  excite  of  human  nature, 
are  as  gross  mistakes,  in  their  way,  as  1;hese,  and  twenty  times  as 
pernicious  :  for  the  latter  become  ludicrous  to  grown  people.  They 
originate  also  in  the  same  extremes,  either  of  callousness,  or  morbid 
Want  of  excitement,  as  the  others.  But  more  of  these  hereafter. 
Our  business  at  present  is  with  things  ghastly  and  ghostly. 

A  ghost  story,  to  be  a  good  one,  should  unite  as  much  as  possible 
objects  such  as  they  are  in  life  with  a  prseternatural  spirit.  And  to 
be  a  perfect  one, — at  least  to  add  to  the  other  utility  of  excitement  a 
moral  utility,-— 'they  should  imply  some  great  sentiment, — something 
that  comes  out  of  the  next  world  to  remind  us  of  our  duties  in  this^ 
or  something  that  helps  to  carry  on  the  idea  of  our  humanity  into 
after-life,  even  when  we  least  think  we  shall  take  it  with  us.  When 
''  the  buried  majesty  of  Denmark"  revisits  earth  to  speak  to  his  son 
Hamlet,  he  comes  armed,  as  he  used  to  be,  in  his  complete  steel. 
His  visor  is  raised ;  and  the  same  fine  face  is  there ;  only,  in  spite  of 
his  punishing  errand  and  his  own  sufferings,  with 

A  countenance  more  in  sorrow  than  in  anger. 

When  Donne  the  poet,  in  his  thoughtful  eagerness  to  reconcile  life 
and  death,  had  a  figure  of  himself  painted  in  a  shroud,  and  laid  by 
his  bedside  in  a  coffin,  he  did  a  higher  thing  than  the  monks  and 
hermits  with  their  skulls.  It  was  taking  his  humanity  with  him  into 
the  other  world,  not  affecting  to  lower  the  sense  of  it  by  regarding 
it  piecemeal  or  in  the  frame-work.  Burns,  in  his  Tam  O'Shanter, 
shews  the  dead  in  their  coffins  after  the  same  fashion.  He  does  not 
lay  bare  to  us  their  skeletons  or  refuse,  things  with  which  we  can 
connect  no  sympathy  or  spiritual  wonder.  They  still  are  flesh  and 
body  to  excite  the  one ;  yet  so  look  and  behave,  inconsistent  in  their 
very  consistency,  as  to  excite  the  other. 

Coffins  stood  round  like  open  presses, 
Which  shewed  the  dead  in  their  last  dresses  : 
And  by  some  devilish  cantrip  sleight, 
Eachj  in  his  cauld  hand,  held  a  light. 

Reanimation  is  perhaps  the  most  ghastly  of  all  ghastly  things,  uniting 
as  it  does  an  appearance  of  natural  interdiction  from  the  next  world. 


THE  INDICATOR.  75 

with  a  supernatural  experience  of  it.  Our  human  consciousness  is 
jarred  out  of  it's  self-possession.  The  extremes  of  habit  and  newness, 
of  commoil-place  and  astonishment,  meet  suddenly,  without  the  kindly 
introduction  of  death  and  change  j  and  the  stranger  appals  us  ^^n 
proportion.  When  the  account  appeared  the  other  day  in  the  news- 
papers of  the  galvanized  dead  body,  whose  features  as  well  as  limbs 
underwent  such  contortions,  that  it  seemed  as  if  it  were  about  to 
rise  up,  one  almost  expected  to  hear,  for  the  first  time,  news  of  the 
other  world.  Perhaps  the  most  appalling  figure  in  Spenser  is  that 
ofMaleger:   (Fairy  Queen,  b.  2.  c.  11.) 

Upon  a  tygre  swift  and  fierce  he  rode. 
That  as  the  winde  ran  underneath  his  lode. 
Whiles  his  long  legs  nigh  raught  unto  the  ground: 
Full  large  he  was  of  limbe,  and  shoulders  brode. 
But  of  such  subtile  substance  and  unsound. 
That  like  a  ghost  he  seemed,  whose  grave-clothes  were  unbound. 

Mr.  Coleridge  in  that  voyage  of  his  to  the  brink  of  all  unutterable 
things,  the  Ancient  Mariner  (which  works  out  however  a  fine  senti- 
ment) does  not  set  mere  ghosts  or  hobgbblins  to  man  the  ship  again, 
when  it's  crew  are  dead;  but  re-animates,  for  a  whUe,  the  crew 
themselves.  There  is  a  striking  fiction  of  this  sort  in  Sale's  Notes 
upon  the  Koran.  Solomon  dies  during  the  building  of  the  temple, 
but  his  body  remains  leaning  on  a  staff  and  overlocdung  the  work- 
men, as  if  it  were  alive;  tiU  a  worm  gnawing  through  the  prop, 
he  falls  down. — The  contrast  of  the  appearance  of  humanity  with 
something  mortal  or  supernatural,  is  always  the  more  terrible  in 
proportion  as  it  is  complete.  In  the  pictures  of  the  temptations  of 
saints  and  hermits,  where  the  holy  person  is  surrounded,  teazed,  and 
enticed,  witli  devils  and  fantastic  shapes,  the  most  shocking  phantasm 
is  that  of  the  beautiful  woman.  To  rejturn  also  to  the  Ancient 
Mariuer.  The  most  appalling  personage  in  Mr.  Coleridge's  An- 
cient Mariner  is  the  Spectre- woman,  who  is  called  Life-in-Death. 
He  renders  the  most  hideous  abstraction  more  terrible  than  it  could 
otherwise  have  been,  by  embodying  it  in  it's  own  reverse.  '^  Death" 
not  only  "lives"  in  it;  but  the  "unutterable"  becomes  uttered.  To 
see  such  an  unearthly  passage  end  in  such  earthliness,  seems  at  the 
moment  to  turn  common-place  itself  into  a  sort  of  spectral  doubt. 
The  Mariner,  after  describing  the  horrible  calm,  and  the  rotting  sea, 
in  which  the  ship  was  stuck,  is  speaking  of  a  strange  sail  which  he 
descried  in  the  distance. 

The  western  wave  was  all  a-flame. 
The  day  was  well  nigh  done  ! 
Almost  upon  the  western  wave 
Rested  the  broad  bright  Sun  ; 
When  that  strange  ship  drove  suddenly 
Betwixt  us  and  the  Sun. 

And  straight  the  Sun  was  flecked  with  bars, 
(Heaven's  Mother  send  us  grace  !) 
As  if  through  a  dungeon-grate  he  peer'd. 
With  broad  and  burning  face. 


76  THE  INDICATOR.  : 

Alas  !  (thought  I,  and  my  heart  beat  loud) 
How  fast  she  neers  and  neers  ! 
'Are  those  her  sails  that  glance  in  the  Sun, 
Like  restless  gossameres  ? 

Are  those  her  ribs,  through  which  the  Sun 

Did  peer,  as  through  a  grate  ? 

And  is  that  Woman  all  her  crew?   . 

Is  that  a  Death  ?  and  are  there  two  ?  -  . 

Is  Death  that  woman's  mate? 

Her  lips  were  red,  her  looks  were  free. 
Her  locks  were  yellow  as  gold. 
Her  skin  was  as  white  as  leprosy. 
The  Night-Mair  Life-in-Death  was  she, 
^       Who  thicks  man's  blood  with  cold. 

But  we  must  come  to  Mr.  Coleridge's  story,  with  all  our  imagina- 
tion upon  us.  Now  let  us  put  our  knees  a  little  nearer  the  \fire, 
and  teU  a  homelier  one  about  Life  in  Death.  The  groundwork  of  it 
is  in  Sandys's  Commentary  upon  Ovid,  and  quoted  from  Sabinus*. 

A  gentleman  of  Bavaria,  of  a  noble  family,  was  so  afflicted  at  the 

•  death  of  his  wife,  that  unable  to  bear  the  company  of  any  other 

person,  he  gave  himself  entirely  up  to  a  solitary  way  of  living.    This 

was  the  more  remarkable  in  him,  as  he  had  been  a  man  of  jovial 

.  habits,  fond  of  his  wine  and  visitors,  and  impatient  of  having  his 

-numerous  indulgencies  contradicted.     But  in  the  same  temper  per- 

.  haps  might  be  found  the  cause  of  his  sorrow ;  for  though  he  would 

be  impatient  with  his  wife,  as  with  others,  yet  he  loved  her,  as  one 

of  the  gentlest  wills  he  had ;  and  the  sweet  and  unaffected  face  which 

she  always  turned  round  upon  his  anger,  might  have  been  a  thing, 

more  easy  for  him  to  trespass  upon,  while  living,  than  to  forget, 

when  dead  and  gone.     His  very  anger  towards  her,  compared  with 

that  toward?  others,  was  a  relief  to  him  ;  and  rather  a  wish  to  refresh 

himself  in  the  balmy  feeling  of  her  patience,  than  to  ma<<e  her 

unhappy  herself ;  or  to  punish  her,  as  some  would  have  done,  for 

that  virtuous  contrast  to  his  own  vice. 

But  whether  he  bethought  himself,  after  her  death,  that  this  was 
"a  very  selfish  mode  of  loving ;  or  whether,  as  some  thought,  he  had 
wearied  out  her  life  with  habits  so  contrary  to  her  own ;  or  whether, 
as  others  reported,  he  had  put  it  to  a.fatal  risque  by  some  lordly  piece 
of  self-wiU,  in  consequence  of  which  she  had  caught  a  fever  on  the 
cold  river  during  a  night  of  festivity ;  he  surprised  even  those  who 
thought  that  he  loved  her,  by  the  extreme  bitterness  of  his  grief. 
The  very  mention  of  festivity,  though  he  was  patient  for  the  first  day 
or  two,  afterwards  threw  him  into  a  passion  of  rage ;  but  by  degrees, 
even  his  rage  followed  his  other  old  habits.  He  was  gentle,  but  ever 
silent.  He  eat  and  drank  but  sufficient  to  keep  him  alive;  and  used 
to  spend  the  greater  part  of  the  day  in  the  spot  where  his  Avife  was 
buried. 

He  was  going  there  one  evening,  in  a  very  melancholy  manner, 

*  The  Saxon  Latin  poet,  we  presume.  Professor  of  Belles-Lettres  at  Frankfort. 
We  know  nothing  of  him  except  from  a  biographical  dictionary. 


THE  INDICATOR.  77 

with  his  eyes  turned  towards  the  earth,  and  had  just  entered  the 
rails  of  the  burial  ground,  when  he  was  accosted  by  the  mild  voice  of 
somebody  coming  to  meet  him.  "  It  is  a  blessed  evening,  Sir,"  said 
the  voice.  The  gentleman  looked  up.  Nobody  but  himself  was 
allowed  to  be  in  the  place  at  that  hour ;  and  yet  he  saw,  with  asto- 
nishment, a  young  chorister  approaching  him.  He  was  going  to 
express  some  wondei',  when,  he  said,  the  modest  though  assured  look 
of  the  boy,  and  the  extreme  beauty  of  his  countenance,  which  glowed 
in  the  setting  sun  before  him,  made  an  irresistible  addition  to  the 
singular  sweetness  of  his  voice  ;  and  he  asked  him  with  an  involuntary 
calmness,  and  a  gesture  of  respect,  not  what  he  did  there,  but  what 
he  wished.  "  Only  to  wish  you  all  good  things,"  answered  the 
stranger,  who  had  now  come  up ;  "  and  to  give  you  this  letter," 
The  gentleman  took  the  letter,  and  saw  upon  it,  with  a  beating  yet 
scarcely  bewildered  heart,  the  handwriting  of  his  wife.  He  raised  his 
eyes  again  to  speak  to  the  boy,  but  he  was  gone.  He  cast  them  far 
and  near  round  the  place,  but  there  were  no  traces  of  a  passenger. 
He  then  opened  the  letter ;  and  by  the.  divine  light  of  the  setting  sun, 
read  these  words  : 

To  my  dear  husband,  who  sorrows  for  his  wife. 

Otto,  my  husband,  the  soul  you  regret  so  is  returned.  You  will 
know  the  truth  of  this,  and  be  prepared  with  calmness  to  see  it,  by 
the  divineness  of  the  messenger,  who  has  passsd  you.  You  will  find 
me  sitting  in  the  public  walk,  praying  for  you ;  praying,  that  you 
may  never  more  give  way  to  those  gusts  of  passion,  and  those  curses 
against  others,  which  divided  us. 

This,  with  a  warm  hand,  from  the  living  Bertha. 

Otto  (for  such,  it  seems,  was  the  gentleman's  name)  went  instantly, 
calmly,  quickly,  yet  with  a  sort  of  benumbed  being,  to  the  public 
walk.  He  felt,  but  with  only  a  half- consciousness,  as  if  he  glided 
without  a  body.  But  all  his  spirit  was  awake,  eager,  intensely 
conscious.  It  seemed  to  him  as  if  there  had  been  but  two  things  in  the 
world, — Life  and  Death ;  and  that  Death  was  dead.  All  else  ap- 
peared to  have  been  a  dream.  He  had  awaked  from  a  waking  state, 
and  found  himself  all  eye,  and  spirit,  and  loco-motion.  He  said  to 
himself,  once,  as  he  Avent :  "  This  is  not  a  dream.  I  will  ask  my 
great  ancestors  tomorrow  to  my  new  bridal  feast,  for  they  are  alive." 
Otto  had  been  calm  at  first,  but  something  of  old  and  triumphant 
feelings  seemed  again  to  come  over  him.  Was  he  again  too  proud 
and  confident  ?  Did  his  earthly  humours  prevail  again,  when  he 
thought  them  least  upon  him?     We  shall  see. 

The  Bavarian  arrived  at  the  public  walk.  It  was  full  of  people 
with  their  wives  and  children,  enjoying  the  beauty  of  the  evening. 
Something  like  common  fear  came  over  him,  as  he  went  in  and  out 
among  them,  looking  at  the  benches  on  each  side.  It  happened  that 
there  was  only  one  person,  a  lady,  sitting  upon  them.  She  had  her 
veil  dowh)  and  his  being  underwent  a  fierce  but  short  convulsion  as 


78  THE  INDICATOR. 

he  went  near  her,  Something  had  a  little  baffled  the  calmer  inspira>* 
tion  of  the  angel  that  had  accosted  himj  for  fear  prevailed  at  the 
instant,  and  Otto  passed  on.  He  returned  before  he  had  reached  the 
end  of  the  walk,  and  approached  the  lady  again.  She  was  still  sitting 
in  the  same  quiet  posture,  only  he  thought  she  looked  at  him.  Again 
h§  passed  her.  On  his  second  return,  a  grave  and  sweet  courage 
came  upon  him,  and  in  an  under  but  firm  tone  of  enquiry,  he  said 
'^  Bertha  ?" — "  I  thought  you  had  forgotten  me,"  said  that  well- 
known  and  mellow  voice,  which  he  had  seemed  as  far  from  ever 
hearing  again,  as  earth  is  from  heaven.  He  took  her  hand,  which 
grasped  his  in  turn  5  and  they  walked  home  in  silence  together,  the 
arm,  which  was  wound  within  his,  giving  warmth  for  warmth. 

The  neighbours  seemed  to  have  a  miraculous  want  of  wonder  at 
the  lady's  reappearance.  Something  was  said  about  a  mock-funeral, 
and  her  having  withdrawn  from  his  company  for  awhile  ;  but  visitors 
came  as  before,  and  his  wife  returned  to  her  household  affairs.  It 
was  only  remarked  that  she  always  looked  pale  and  pensive.  But  she 
was  more  kind  to  all,  even  than  before ;  and  her  pensiveness  seemed 
rather  the  result  of  some  great  internal  thought,  than  of  unhappiness. 

For  a  year  or  two,  the  Bavarian  retained  the  better  temper  which 
he  acquired.  His  fortunes  flourished  beyond  his  earliest  ambition  j 
the  most  amiable  as  well  as  noble  persons  of  the  district  were  fre- 
quent visitors ;  and  people  said  that  to  be  at  Otto's  house,  must  be 
the  next  thing  to  bein^  in  heaven.  But  by  degrees  his  self-will  re- 
turned with  his  prosperity.  E[e  never  vented  impatience  on  his  wife ; 
but  he  again  began  to  shew,  that  the  disquietude  it  gave  her  to  see  it 
vented  on  others,  was  a  secondary  thing>  in  his  mind,  to  the  indul- 
gence of  it.  Whether  it  was,  that  his  grief  for  her  loss  had  been  rather 
remorse  than  affection,  and  so  he  held  himself  secure  if  he  treated 
her  well ;  or  whether  he  was  at  all  times  rather  proud  of  her,  than 
fond ;  or  whatever  was  the  cause  which  again  set  his  antipathies  above 
his  sympathies,  certain  it  was,  that  his  old  habits  returned  upon  him ; 
not  so  often  indeed }  but  with  greater  violence  and  pride,  when  they 
did.  These  were  the  only  times,  at  which  his  wife  was  observed  to 
shew  any  ordinary  symptoms  of  uneasiness. 

At  length,  one  day,  some  strong  rebuff  which  he  had  received  from 
an  alienated  neighbour  threw  him  into  such  a  transport  of  rage,  that 
he  gave  way  to  the  most  bitter  imprecations,  crying  with  a  loud  voice 
— "  This  treatment  to  me  too  !    To  me !    To  me,   who  if  the  world 

knew  all At  these  words,  his  wife,  who  had  in  vain  laid  her  hand 

upon  his,  and  looked  him  with  dreary  earnestness  in  the  face,  sud- 
denly glided  from  the  room.  He,  and  two  or  three  who  were  pre- 
sent, were  struck  with  a  dumb  horror.  They  said,  she  did  not  walk 
out,  nor  vanish  suddenly ;  but  glided,  as  one  who  could  dispense  with 
the  use  of  feet.  After  a  moment's  pause,  the  others  proposed  to  him  to 
follow  her.  He  made  a  movement  of  despair  3  but  they  went.  There 
was  a  short  passage,  which  turned  to  the  right  into  her  favourite 
room.    They  knocked  at  the  door  twice  or  three  timesj  and  received 


THE  INDICATOR.  70 

no  answer.  At  lastj  one  of  them  gently  opened  it  ^  and  looking  in, 
they  saw  her,  as  they  thought,  standing  before  a  fire,  which  was  the 
only  light  in  the  room.  Yet  she  stood  so  far  from  it,  as  rather  to  be 
in  the  middle  of  the  room  :  only  the  face  was  towards  the  fire,  and 
she  seemed  looking  upon  it.  They  addressed  her,  but  received  no 
answer.  They  stepped  gently  towards  her,  and  still  received  none. 
The  figure  stood  dumb  and  unmoved.  At  last,  one  of  them  went 
round  in  front,  and  instantly  fell  on  the  floor.  The  figure  was  with- 
out body.  A  hollow  hood  was  left  instead  of  a  face.  The  clothes 
were  standing  upright  by  themselves. 

That  room  was  blocked  up  for  ever,  for  the  clothes,  if  it  might  be 
so,  to  moulder  away.  It  was  called  the  Room  of  the  Lady's  Figure. 
The  house,  after  the  gentleman's  death,  was  long  uninhabited,  and 
at  length  burnt  by  the  peasants  in  an  insurrection.  As  for  himself, 
he  died  about  nine  months  after,  a  gentle  and  child-like  penitent. 
He  had  never  stirred  from  the  house  since ;  and  nobody  would 
venture  to  go  near  him,  but  a  man  who  had  the  reputation  of  being 
a  reprobate.  It  was  from  this  man  that  the  particulars  of  the  story 
came  first.  He  would  distribute  the  gentleman's  alms  in  great 
abundance  to  any  strange  poor  who  would  accept  them ;  for  most  of 
the  neighbours  held  them  in  horror.  He  tried  all  he  could  to  get 
the  parents  among  them  to  let  some  of  their  little  children,  or  a 
single  one  of  them,  go  to  see  his  employer.  They  said  he  even  asked 
it  one  day  with  tears  in  his  eyes.  But  they  shuddered  to  think  of  it ; 
and  the  matter  was  not  mended,  when  this  profane  person,  in  a  fit 
of  impatience,  said  one  day,  that  he  would  have  a  child  of  his  own 
on  purpose.  His  employer,  however,  died  in  a  day  or  two.  They 
did  not  believe  a  word  he  told  them  of  all  the  Bavarian's  gentleness, 
looking  upon  the  latter  as  a  sort  of  ogre,  and  upon  his  agent  as  little 
better,  though  a  goodnatured-looking  earnest  kind  of  person.  It  was 
said  many  years  after,  that  this  man  had  been  a  friend  of  the  Bava- 
rian's when  young,  and  had  been  deserted  by  him.  And  the  young 
believed  it,  whatever  the  old  might. 


THE  OLD  SKIFF. 


From  the  style  of  this  animated  little  poem  of  Catullus,  as  well  as 
from  it's  general  spirit,  the  commentators  have  naturally  supposed 
that  it  was  written  in  imitation  or  emulation  of  the  Greeks.  "  Adeo 
spirat,"  says  Doering,  "  Graecorum  indolem,  leporem,  et  in  usu  me- 
taphorarum  audaciam."  The  probability  is,  that  Catullus,  who  was 
a  traveller,  wrote  it  upon  some  favourite  vessel,  which  after  long  ser- 
vice he  had  thus  consecrated  to  the  twin  stars  of  Castor  and  Pollux, 
and  laid  up  near  his  beloved  house  on  the  peninsula  of  Sirmio.  The 
reader  is  to  imagine,  that  the  poet,  during  a  visit  of  some  friends, 
takes  them  down  to  a  retired  bay  of  the  water,  and  shews  them  his 
old  skiff  laid  up  in  port,  like  a  battered  pensioner. 


80  THE  INDICATOR.- 

Phaselus  ille,  quem  videtis,  hoSpites, 
Ait  fuisse  navium  celerrimus,*  ■ 
Neque  uUius  natantis  impetum  trabis 
Neqviisse  praeterire,  sive  palraulis 
O^us  foret  volare,  sive  liuteo. 
Et  hoc  negat  minacis  Adriatici 
Negare  litus,  insulasve  Cycladas, 
Rhodumve  nobilem,  horridfimque  Thraciam, 
Propontidaj  trucerave  Ponticuni  sinum,  &c. 

The  bark,  my  friends,  which  you  see  here, 
Will  tell  you  that  it  had  no  peer  ; 
And  that  no  skiff  that  swam  the  main. 
Could  get  before  it,  strain  for  strain. 
Whether  it  flew  with  sail  or  oar. 
And  this  it,  says,  not  Adria's  shore 
>"  With  all  its  bluster  can  deny, 

Mor  that  ^gaean  company. 
Nor  glorious  Rhodes,  nor  savage  Thrace, 
Nor  Hellespont  with  either  face. 
Nor  the  tremendous  Pontic  bay, —    < 
Where,  till  it  took  it's  watery  way. 
It  was  a  thing  of  sylvan  locks. 
And  used,  on  the  Cytorian  rocks. 
To  hiss  and  talk,  with  windy  hair. 
And  thou,  Amastris,  and  thou,  there, 
Cytorus,  with  whose  box  it  grew, 
All  this,  it  says,  was  known  to  you ; 
And  that  from  its  remotest  birth. 
It  held  the  surnmit  of  your  earth  ; 
And  in  your  waters  bathed  it's  oars  ; 
And  so  by  all  the  harmless  shores. 
Carried  it's  master  in  it's  breast. 
Whether  the  wind  was  east  or  west; 
Or  whether  Jove,  upon  the  sail,* 
Sent,  steady  and  blithe,  a  forward  gale  : 
Nor  ever  had  it  vows  to  pay 
To  gods  that  watch  the  billowy  way. 
When  it  came  heme  from  distant  seas 
And  in  this  limpid  lake  took  ease. 
But  this  is  past:  apd  now,  grown  old. 
It  lays  it's  age  in  this  calm  hold. 
And  dedicates  itself  to  thee, 
Castor,  and  thy  twin  deity. 


[^^5  this  publication  is  unstamped,  it  will  not  circulate  by  means  of  tlie 

general  post  without  a  heavy  expense.     Versons  in  the  country  who 
'    wish  to  become  subscribers,  should  therefore  order  it  of  booksellers  who 

send  weekly  or  monthly  parcels  to  their  respectlve^places  of  residence. 

The  delay  would  be  of  little  consequence  with  a  work  not  containing 

any  thing  of  merely  temporary  interest.'\ 


Orders  received  by  the  Booksellers,  by  the  Newsmen,  and  by  the  Publishsr, 
Joseph  Appleyard,  19,  Catherine-street,  Strand. — Price  Twopence. 

Printed  by  C.  H.  Reynell,  No,  45 ,  Broad-street,  Golden-square,  London. 


THE    INDICATOR. 


There  he  arriving  round  about  dtoh  flie, 
And  takes  survey  with  busie,  curious  eye: 
Now  thi%  uovp  tiiat,  he  tasteth  tenderly. 

Spexser. 


No.  XL— WEDNESDAY,   DECEMBER  22d,  1819. 


JHIEVES,  ANCIENT  AND  MODERN. 

Having  met  in  the  Harleian  Miscellany  with  ail  acfcount  of  a  pet 
thief  of  ours,  the  famous  Du  Vail,  who  flourished  in  the  time  of  Charles 
the  Second,  and  wishing  to  introduce  him  worthily  to  the  readers, 
it  has  brought  to  mind  such  a  number  of  the  light-fingered  gentry, 
his  predecessors,  that  we  almost  feel  hustled  by  the  thoughts  of 
them.  Our  subject,  we  may  truly  fear,  will  run  away  with  us. 
We  feel  beset,  like  poor  Tasso  in  his  dungeon ;  and  are  not  sure 
that  our  paper  will  not  suddenly  be  conveyed  away  from  under  our 
pen.  Already  we  miss  some  excellent  remarks,  which  we  should 
have  made  in  this  place.  If  the  reader  should  meet  with  any  of  that 
kind  hereafter,  upon  the  like  subject,  in  another  man's  writings, 
twenty  to  one  they  are  stolen  from  us,  and  ought  to  have  enriched 
this  our  plundered  exordium.  He  that  steals  an  author's  purse,  may 
emphatically  be  said  to  steal  trash ;   but  he  that  filches  from  him 

his  good  things Alas,  we  thought  our  subject  would  be  running 

away  with  us.  We  must  keep  firm.  We  must  put  something 
heavier  in  our  remarks,  as  the  little  thin  Grecian  philosopher  used  to 
put  lead  in  his  pockets,  lest  the  wind  should  steal  him. 

The  more  ruffianly  crowd  of  thieves  should  go  first,  as  pioneers  ; 
but  they  can  hardly  be  looked  upon  as  .progenitors  of  our  gentle  Du 
Vail ;  and  besides,  with  all  their  fei-ocity,  som^  of  them  assume  a  gran- 
deur, from  standing  in  the  remote  shadows  of  antiquity.  There  was 
the  famous  son,  for  instance,  of  Vulcan  and  Medusa,  whom  Virgil 
calls  the  dire  aspect  of  half-human  Cacus — Semihominis  Caci  facies 
dira.  (^neid,  B.  8,  y.  194.)  He  was  the  Raw-head-and-bloody- 
bones  of  ancient  fable.  He  lived  in  a  cave  by  Mount  Aventine, 
breathing  out  fiery  smoke,  and  haunting  king  Evander's  highway 
like  the  Apollyon  of  Pilgrim's  Progress. 

Semperque  recenti  '     '^  ' 

Caede  tepebat  humus  ;  foribusque  adfixa'SiiptrbiS^ 
Ora  virdm  tristi  pendebant  pallida  trabd.  v  1 ,"  s  ■  '  / 

The  place  about  was  ever  in  a  plash 
•  Qf  steaming  blood  ;  and  o'er  the  insulting  door 
Htingpellid  human  heads,  defaced  with  drefii'y  gore. 


82  THE  INDICATOR. 

He  stole  some  of  the  cows  of  Hercules,  and  dragged  them  backwards 
into  his  cave  to  prevent  discovery ;  but  the  oxen  happening  to  low, 
the  cows  answered  them ;  and  the  demigod,  detecting  the  miscreant 
in  his  cave,  strangled  him  after  a  hard  encounter.  This  is  one  of 
the  earliest  sharping  tricks  upon  record. 

Autolycus,  the  son  of  Mercury  (after  whom  Shakspeare  christened 
his  merry  rogue  in  the  Winter's  Tale)  was  a  thief  suitable  to  the 
greater  airiness  of  his  origin.  He  is  said  to  have  performed  tricks, 
which  must  awake  the  envy  even  of  horse-dealers  ;  for  in  pretending 
to  return  a  capital  horse  which  he  had  stolen,  he  palmed  upon  the 
owners  a  sorry  jade  of  an  ass ;  which  was  gravely  received  by  those 
flats  of  antiquity.  Another  time  he  went  still  farther ;  for  having 
conveyed  away  a  handsome  bride,  he  sent  in  exchange  an  old  lady 
elaborately  hideous ;  yet  the  husband  did  not  find  out  the  trick,  till 
he  had  got  off. 

Autolycus  himself  however  was  outwitted  by  Sisyphus,  the  son  Of 
^olus.  Autolycus  was  in  the  habit  of  stealing  his  neighbours  cattle, 
and  altering  the  marks  upon  them.  Among  others  he  stole  some 
from  Sisyphus ;  but  notwithstanding  his  usual  precautions,  he  was 
astonished  to  find  the  latter  come  and  pick  out  his  oxen,  as  if  nothing 
had  happened.  He  had  marked  them  under  the  hoof.  Autolycus,  it 
seems,  had  the  usual  generosity  of  genius;  and  was  so  pleased  with 
this  evidence  of  superior  cunning,  that  some  say  he  gave  him  in 
marriage  his  daughter  Anticlea,  who  was  afterwards  the  wife  of 
Laertes,  the  father  of  Ulysses.  According  to  others  however,  he 
only  favoured  him  with  his  daughter's.company  for  a  time,  a  fashion 
not  yet  extinct  in  some  primitive  countries  ;  ahd  it  was  a  reproach 
made  against  Ulysses,  that  Laertes  was  only  his  pretended,  and 
Sisyphus  his  real  father.  Sisyphus  has  the  credit  of  being  the  greatest 
knave  of  antiquity.  His  famous  punishment  in  hell,  of  being  com- 
pelled to  roll  a  stone  up  a  hUl  to  all  eternity,  and  seeing  it  always  go 
down  again,  is  attributed  by  some  to  a  characteristic  trait,  which  he 
could  not  help  playing  off  upon  Pluto.  It  was  supposed  by  t^ie 
ancients,  that  a  man's  ghost  would  wander  in  a  melancholy  manner 
upon  the  banks  of  the  Styx,  as  long  as  his  corpse  remained  without 
Wrial.  Sisyphus  on  his  death-bed  purposely  charged  his  wife  to 
leave  him  unburied ;  and  then  begged  Pluto's  permission  to  go  back 
to  earth,  on  his  parole,  merely  to  punish  her  for  so  scandalous,  a 
neglect.  Like  the  lawyer  however,  who  contrived  to  let  his  hat  fall 
inside  the  door  of  heaven,  and  got  St.  Peter's  permission  to  step  in 
for  it,  Sisyphus  would  not  return  j  and  so  when  Pluto  had  him  again, 
he  paid  him  for  the  trick,  with  setting  him  upon  this  everlasting  job. 

The  exploits  of  Mercury  himself,  the  god  of  cunning,  may  be 
easily  imagined  to  surpass  every  thing  atchieved  by  profaner  hands. 
Homer,  in  the  Hymn  to  his  honour,  has  given  a  delightful  account 
of  his  pre-maturity  in  swindling.  He  had  not  been  born  many  hours 
before  he  stole  Vulcan's  tools,  Mars's  sword,  and  Jupiter's  sceptre. 
He  beat  Cupid  in  a  wrestling  bout  on  the  same  day ;  and  Venius 
caressing  him  for  his  conquest,  he  returned  the  embrace  by  filching 


THE  INDICATOR.  83 

away  her  girdle.  He  would  also  have  stolen  Jupiter's  thunder-bolts^ 
but  was  afraid  of  burning  his  fingers.  On  the  evening  of  his  birth- 
day, he  drove  oiF  the  eattle  of  Adoietus,  which  Apollo  was  tending. 
The  good-humoured  god  of  wit  endeavoured  to  frighten  him  into 
restoring  them  ;  but  could  not  help  laughing,  when  in  the  midst  of 
his  threaten!  ngs  he  found  himself  without  his  quiver. 

The  history  of  thieves  is  to  be  found  either  in  that  of  romance,  or 
in  the  details  of  the  history  of  cities.  The  latter  have  not  come 
,down  to  us  from  the  ancient  world,  with  some  exceptions  in  the 
comic  writers,  immaterial  to  our  present  purpose,  and  in  the  loath- 
some rhetoric  of  Petronius,  The  finest  thief  in  old  history  is  the 
pirate  who  made  that  famous  answer  to  Alexander^  in  which  he  said 
that  the  conqueror  was  only  the  mightier  thief  of  the  two.  The  story 
of  the  thieving  architect  in  Herodotus  we  will  tell  another  time.  We  can 
call  to  mind  no  other  thieves  in  the  Greek  and  Latin  writers,  (always 
excepting  political  ones)  except  some  paltry  fellows  who  stole  napkins 
at  dinner }  and  the  robbers  in  Apuleius,  the  precursors  of  those  in 
Gil  Bias.  When  we  come  however  to  the  times  of  the  Arabians  and 
of  chivalry,  they  abound  in  all  their  glory,  both  great  and  small. 
Who  among  us  does  not  know  by  heart  the  story  of  the  never-to-be- 
forgotten  Forty  Thieves,  with  their  treasure  in'the  green  wood,  their 
anxious  observer,  their  magical  opening  of  the  door,  their  captain, 
their  concealment  in  the  jars,  and  the  scalding  oil,  that,  as  it  were, 
extinguished  them  groaning,  one  by  one?  Have  we  not  all  ridden 
backwards  and  forwards  with  them  to  the  wood  a  hundred  times  ? 
Watched  them,  with  fear  and  trembling,  from  the  tree  ?  Sewn  up, 
blindfolded,  the  four  quarters  of  the  dead  body.''  And  said,  "  Open, 
Sesame,'-,  to  every  door  at  school  ?"  May  we  ride  with  them  again  and 
again ;  or  we  shall  lose  our  appetite  for  some  of  the  best  things  in 
the  world. 

We  pass  over  those  interlopers  in  our  English  family,  the  Danes  j 
as  well  as  RoUo  the  Norman,  and  other  freebooters,  who  only  wanted 
less  need  of  robbery,  to  become  respectable  conquerors.  In  fact  they 
did  so,  as  they  got  on.  We  have  also  no  particular  worthy  to  select 
fVom  among  that  host  of  petty  chieftains,  who  availed  themselves  of 
their  knightly  castles  and  privileges,  to  commit  all  sorts  of  unchival- 
rous  outi-ages.  These  are  the  giants  of  modern  romance ;  and  the 
Veglios,  Malengins,  and  Pinabellos,  of  Pulci,  Spenser,  and  Ariosto. 
They  survived  in  the  petty  states  6f  Italy  a  long  while  j  gradually 
took  a  less  solitary  though  hardly  less  ferocious  shape  among  the 
fierce  political  partisans  recorded  by  Dante  ;  and  at  length  became 
represented  by  the  men  of  desperate  fortunes,  who  make  such  a 
figure,  between  the  gloomy  and  the  gallant,  in  Mrs,  RadclifFe's 
Mysteries  of  Udolpho.  The  breaking  up  of  the  late  kingdom  of 
Italy  with  it's  dependencies,  has  again  revived  them  in  some  degree ; 
but  not,  we  believe,  in  any  shape  above  common  Jobbery.  The 
regular  modern  thief  seems  to  make  his  appearance  for  the  first  time, 
in  the  imaginary  characteir  of  Brunello,  as  described  by  Boiardo  and 
Ariosto.     He  is  a  fellow  that  steals  every  valuable  thatxjomes  in  his 


84  THE  INDICATOR. 

way.  The  way  in  which  he  robs  Sacripant  King  of  Circassian  of  his 
horse,  has  been  ridiculed  by  Cervantes ;  if  indeed  he  did  not  rather 
repeat  it  with  great  zest ;  for  his  use  of  the  theft  is  really  not  such 
a  caricature  as  in  Boiardo  and  his  great  follower.  While  Sancho  is 
sitting  lumpishly  asleep  upon  the  back  of  his  friend  Dapple,  Gines  de 
Passanaonte,  the  famous  thief,  comes  and  gently  withdraws  the 
donkey  from  under  him,  leaving  the  somniculous  squire  propped  up 
on  the  saddle  with  four  sticks.  His  consternation  on  waking  may  be 
guessed.  But  in  the  Italian  poets,  the  Circassian  prince  has  only 
fallen  into  a  deep  meditation,  when  Brunello  draws  away  his  steed. 
Ariosto  appears  to  have  thought  this  extravagance  a  hazardous  one, 
though  he  could  not  deny  himself  the  pleasure  of  repeating  it  5  for 
he  has  made  Sacripant  blush,  when  called  upon  to  testify  how  the 
horse  was  stolen  from  him.     (Orlando  Eurio.  c.  27-  st.  84.) 

In  the  Italian  Novels  and  the  old  French  Tales,  are  a  variety  of 
extremely  amusing  stories  of  thieves,  till  most  probably  founded  on 
fact.  We  will  give  a  specimen  as  we  go,  by  way  of  making  this 
article  the  completer.  A  doctor  of  laws  in  Bologna  had  become  rich 
enough,  by  scraping  money  together,  to  indulge  himself  in  a  grand 
silver  cup,  Avhich  he  sent  home  one  day  to  his  wife  from  the  gold- 
smith's. There  were  two  sharping  fellows  prowling  about  that  day  in 
search  of  a  prize  ;  and  getting  scent  of  the  cup,  they  laid  their  heads 
together,  to  contrive  how  they  might  indulge  themselves  in  it  instead. 
One  of  thepi  accordingly  goes  to  a  fishmonger's,  and  buys  a  fine  lam- 
prey, which  he  takes  to  the  doctor's  wife,  with  her  husband's  compli- 
ments, and  he  would  bring  a  company  of  his  brother  doctors  with 
him  to  dinner,  requesting  in  the  mean  time  that  she  would  send  back 
the  cup,  by  the  beai'er,  as  he  had  forgotten  to  have  his  arms  engraved 
iipoa  it.  The  good  lady,  happy  to  obey  all  these  pleasing  impulses 
on  the  part  of  master  doctor,  takes  in  the  fish  and  sends  out  the  cup, 
with  equal  satisfaction  5  and  sets  about  getting  the  dinner  ready. 
The  doctor  comes  home  at  his  usual  hour,  and  finding  his  dinner  so 
much  better  than  ordinary,  asks  with  an  air  of  wonder,  where  was  the 
necessity  of  going  to  that  expense  :  upon  which  the  Avife,  putting  on  an 
air  of  wonder  in  her  turn,  and  proud  of  possessing  the  new  cup,  asks 
him  where  are  all  those  brother  doctors,  whom  he  said  he  should 
bring  with  him.  What  does  the  fool  mean  ?  said  the  testy  old  gen- 
tleman. Mean!  rejoined  the  wife : — what  does  this  mean?  pointing 
to  the  fish.  The  doctor  looked  down  with  his  old  eyes  at  the  lamprey. 
"  God  knows,"  said  he,  "  what  it  means.  I  am  sure  I  don't  know 
what  it  means, ,  moi'e  than  any  other  fish  ;  except  that  I  shall  have 
to  pay  a  pretty  sum  for  every  mouthful  you  eat  of  it."  "  Why  it 
was  your  own  doing,  husband,"  said  the  wife  3  '*^  and  you  will  re- 
member it  perhaps,  when  you  recollect  that  the  same  man  that 
broiight  me  the  fish,  was  to  take  away  the  cup  to  have  your  name 
engraved  upon  it."  At  this  the  doctor  started  back,  with  his  eyes  as 
Avide  open  as  the  fish's,  exclaming,  ''  And  you  gave  it  him,  did  you  ?" 
"  To  be  sure  I  did  3"  returned  the  good  housewife.  The  old  doctor 
here  bega»i  a  passionate  speech,  which  he  suddenly  broke  off;  and 


THE  INDICATOR.  feS 

after  stainping  up  and  down  the  roomj  and  crying  out  that  he  ^as 
an  undone  advocate,  ran  (quivering  out  into  the  street  like  one  frantic, 
asking  every  body  if  he  had  seen  a  man  with  a  lamprey.     The  two 
rogues  were  walking  all  this  time  in  the  neighbourhood  j  and  seeing 
the  doctor  set  oiF,  in  his  frantic  fit,  to  the  goldsmith's,  and  knowing 
that  he  who  brought  the  lamprey  had  been  well  disguised,  they  began 
to  ask  one  another,  in  the  jollity  of  their  triumph,  what  need  theife 
was  for  losing  a  good  lamprey,  because  they  had  gained  a  cup.     The 
other  therefore  went  to  the  doctor's  house,   and  putting  on  a  face  oF 
good  news,  told  the  wife  that  the  cup  was  found.     "  Master  doctor," 
said  he,   "  bade  me  come  and  tell  you  that  it  was  but  a  joke  of  youl' 
old  friend  What's-his-name."    "  Castellani,  I  warrant  me,"  said  the 
wife,  with  a  face  broad  with  delight.     ''  The  same,"  returned  he:— ^ 
''  master  doctor  says  that  Signor  Castellani,  and  the  other  gentle- 
men  he   spoke   of,    are   waiting   for   you   at   the    Signer's   hoxise, 
where  they  purpose  to  laugh  away  the  choler  they  so  merrily  raised 
with  a  good  dinner  and  wine ;  and  to  that  end  they  have  sent  me 
for  the  lamprey."     "  Take  it  in  God's  name,"  said  the  good  woman ; 
"  I  am  heartily  glad  to  see  it  go  out  of  the  house,  and  shall  follow  it 
myself  speedily."  So  saying,  she  gave  him  the  fine  hot  fish,  with  some 
sauce,  between  two  dishes ;  and  the  knave,  who  felt  already  round  the 
corner  with  glee,  slid  it  under  his  cloak,   and  made  the  best  of  his 
way  to  his  companion,  who  lifted  up  his  hands  and  eyes  at  sight  of 
him,  and  asked  twenty  questions  in  a  breath,  and  chuckled,  and  slap- 
ped his  thigh,  and  snapped  his  fingers  for  joy,  to  think  what  a  pair 
of  fools  two  rogues  had  to  do  with.     Little  did  the  poor  despairing 
doctoi',   on  his  return  home,   guess  what  they  were  saying  of  him  as 
he  passed  the  wail  of  the  house  in  which  they  were  feasting.    Heyday ! 
cried  the  wife,  smiling  all  abroad,  as  she  saw  him  entering,  "^  What, 
are  thou  come  to  fetch  me  then,  bone  of  my  bone  ?    WeU ;  if  this  isn't 
the  gaUantest  day  I  have  seen  many  a  year  \     It  puts  me  in  mind — 

it  puts  me  in  mind Here  the  chirping  old  lady  was  about  to 

remind  the  doctor  of  the  days  of  his  youth,  holding  out  her  arms  and 
raising  her  quivering  voice,  when  (we  shudder  to  rfelate)  she  received 
a  considerable  cuff  on  the  left  cheek.  "  You  make  me  mad,"  cried 
the  doctor,  "  with  your  eternal  idiotical  nonsense.  Wh  it  do  yoS. 
mean  by  coming  to  fetch  you,  and  the  gaUantest  day  of  your  life  ? 
May  the  devil  fetch  you,  and  me,  and  that  invisible  fiend  that  stole 
the  cup."  "  What !"  exclaimed  the  wife,  suddenly  changing  her 
tone  from  a  vociferous  complaint  which  she  had  unthinkirgly  set  up, 
"  did  you  send  nobody  then  for  the  lamprey?"  Here  the  doctor 
cast  his  eyes  upon  the  bereaved  table  j  and  unable  to  bear  the  shame 
of  this  additional  loss,  however  trivial,  began  tearing  h  s  hair  and 
beard,  and  hopping  about  the  room,  giving  his  wife  a  new  and  scan- 
dalous epithet  at  every  step,  as  if  he  was  dancing  to  a  catal(>gue  of  her 
imperfections.  The  story  shook  all  the  shoulders  in  Bologna  for  a 
month  after. 

As  we  find,  by  the  length  to  which  this  article  has  already  reached, 
that  we. should  otherwise  be  obliged  to  compress  our  recollections  of 


86  THE  INDICATOR. 

Spanish,  French>  and  English  thieves  into  a  compass  that  would  squeeze 
them  into  the  merest  dry  noticesi  we  will  postpone  them  at  once  to  our 
next  number  J  and  relate  another  story  from  the  same  Italian  novel- 
ist that  supplied  our  last.*  Our  author  is  Mass uccio  of  Salerno,  a 
novelist  who  disputes  with  Bandello  the  rank  next  in  popularity  to 
Boccaccio.  We  have  not  the  original  by  iis ;  and  must  be  obliged  to 
an  English  work  for  the  ground-work  of  our  story,  as  we  have 
been  to  Paynter's  Palace  of  Pleasure  for  the  one  just  related.  But 
we  take  the  liberty  usual  with  the  repeaters  of  these  stories.  We 
retain  the  incidents,  but  tell  them  in  our  own  way,  and  imagine 
what  might  happen  in  the  intervals. 

Two  Neapolitan  sharpers,  having  robbed  a  Genoese  merchant  o£ 
his  purse,  make  the  best  of  their  way  to  Sienna,  where  they  arrive 
during  the  preaching  of  St.  Bernardin.  One  of  them  attends  a  ser- 
mon with  an  air  of  conspicuous  modesty  and  devotion,  and  afterwards 
waits  upon  the  preacher,  and  addresses  him  thus :  ''Reverend  father, 
you  see  before  you  a  man,  poor  indeed,  but  honest.  I  do  not  mean 
to  boast,  God  knows,  I  have  no  reason.  Who  upon  earth  has  rea- 
son, unless  it  be  one  who  will  be  the  last  to  boast,  like  yourself,  holy 
father?"  Here  the  saintly  orator  shook  his  head,  '' I  do  not  mean," 
resumed  the  stranger,  "  to  speak  even  of  the  reverend  and  illustrious 
Bernardin,  but  as  a  man  among  men.  For  my  part,  I  am,  as  it 
were,  a  creeping  thing  among  them  5  and  yet  I  am  honest.  If  I 
have  any  virtue,  it  is  that.  1  crawl  right  onward  in  my  path,  look- 
ing neither  to  the  fight  nor  to  the  leftj  and  yet  I  have  my  temfpta- 
tions.  Reverend  father,  I  have  found  this  purse.  I  will  not  deny, 
that  being  often  in  want  of  the  common  necessaries  of  life,  and 
having  been  obliged  last  night,  in  particular,  to  sit  down  faint  at  the 
city  gates,  for  want  of  my  ordinary  crust  and  onion,  which  I  had 
given  to  one  (God  help  him!)  still  worse  off  than  myself,  I. did  cast 
gome  looks — I  did,  I  say,  just  open  the  purse,  and  cast  a  wistful  eye 
at  one  of  those  shining  pieces,  that  lay  one  over  the  other  inside, 
with  something  like  a  wish  that  I  could  procure  myself  a  meal  with 
it,  unknown  to  the  lawful  proprietor.  But  my  conscience,  thank 
Heaven,  prevailed.  I  have  to  make  two  requests  to  you,  reverend 
father.  First,  that  you  will  absolve  me  for  this  my  offence ;  and 
second,  that  you  will  be  pleased  to  mention  in  one  of  your  discourses, 
that  a  poor  sinner  from  Milan,  on  his  road  to  hear  them,  has  found 
a  purse,  and  wpuld  willingly  restore  it  to  the  right  owner.  I  would 
fain  give  double  the  contents  of  it  to  find  him  out  j  but  then,  what 
can  I  do  ?  All  the  wealth  I  have  consists  in  my  honesty.  Be  pleased, 
most  illustrious  father,  to  mention  this  in  your  discourse,  as  modestly 
as  becomes  my  nothingness ;  and  to  add  especially,  that  the  purse 
was  found  on  the  road  from  Milan,  lying,  miraculously  as  it  were, 

*  It  is  by  no  means  our  intention  in  general  to  carry  on  a  subject  from  one 
paper  to  another.  We  have  our  reasons  for  doing  otherwise.  But  we  may  take 
the  liberty  sometimes,  when  the  subject  is  of  a  various  nature  like  the  present ; 
an  J  when  the  reader  may,  in  fact,  leave  off  at  several  points,  if  he  pleases,  with- 
out any  necessity  of  going  forward. 


THE  INDICATOR.  87 

upon  a  svttmj  bank,  open  to  the  view  of  all,  under  an  olive  tree,  not 
far  from  a  little  fountain,  the  pleasant  noise  of  which  peradventure 
had  invited  the  ov(^ner  to  sleep."  The  good  father,  at  hearing  this 
detail,  smiled  at  the  anxious  sincerity  of  the  poor  pilgrim,  and  giving 
him  the  required  absolution,  promised  to  do  his  utmost  to  bring 
forth  the  proprietor.  In  his  next  sermon,  he  accordingly  dwelt  with 
such  eloquence  on  the  opportunities  thrown  in  the  way  of  the  rich 
'who  lose  purses  to  behave  nobly,  that  his  congregation  several 
times  half  rose  from  their  seats  out  of  enthusiasm,  and  longed  for 
some  convenient  loss  of  property,  that  might  enable  them  to  shew 
their  disinterestedness.  At  the  conclusion  of  it,  however,  a  man 
stepped  forward,  and  said,  that  anxious  as  he  was  to  do  justice  to 
the  finder  of  the  purse,  which  he  knew  to  be  his  the  moment  he  saw  it 
(only  he  was  loth  to  interrupt  the  reverend  father),  he  had  claims  upon 
him  at  home,  in  the  person  of  his  wife  and  thirteen  children, — fourteen 
perhaps,  he  might  now  say, — ^which,  to  his  great  sorrow,  prevented  him 
from  giving  the  finder  more  than  a  quarter  of, a  pieces  this  however 
he  offered  him  with  the  less  scruple,  since  he  saw  the  seraphic  disposi- 
tion of  the  reverend  preacher  and  his  congregation,  who  he  had  no 
doubt  would  make  ample  amends  for  this  involuntary  deficiency  on  the 
part  of  a  poor  family  man,  the  whole  portion  of  whose  wife  and  children 
might  be  said  to  be  wiapt  up  in  that  purse.  His  sleep  under  the 
olive  tree  had  been  his  last  for  these  six  nights  (here  the  other  man 
said,  with  a  tremulous  joy  of  acknowledgment,  that  it  was  indeed 
just  six  nights  since  he  had  found  it) ;  and  heaven  only  knew  when 
he  should  have  had  another,  if  his  children's  bread,  so  to  speak,  had 
not  been  found  again."  With  these  words,  the  sharper  (for  such,  of 
course,  he  was)  presented  the  quarter  of  a  piece  to  his  companion, 
who  made  all  but  a  prostration  for  it ;  and  hastened  with  the  purse 
out  ^of  the  church.  The  other  man's  circumstances  were  then 
enquired  into,  and  as  he  was  found  to  have  almost  as  many  children 
as  the  purse-owner,  and  no  possessions  at  all,  as  he  said,  but  his 
honesty, — all  his  children  being  equally  poor  and  pious, — ^a  conside- 
rable subscription  "was  raised  for  him ;  so  large  indeed,  that  on  the 
appearance,  of  a  new  claimant  next  day,  the  pockets  of  the  good  peo- 
ple were  found  empty.  This  was  no  other  than  the  Genoese  mer- 
chant, who  having  turned  back  on  his  road,  when  he  missed  his 
purse,  did  not  stop  till  he' came  to  Sienna,  and  heard  the  news  of  the 
day  before.  Imagine  the  feelings  of  the  deceived  people.  Saint 
Bernardin  was  convinced  that  the  two  cheats  were  devils  in  disguise. 
The  resident  canon  had  thought  pretty  nearly  as  much  all  along,  but 
had  held  his  tongue,  and  now  hoped  it  wonld  be  a  lesson  to  people 
not  to  listen  to  every  body  who  could  talk,  especially  to  the  neglect  of 
Saint  Antonio's  monastery.  As  to  the  people  Jthemselves,  they  thought 
variously.  Most  of  them  were  mortified  at  having  been  cheated  j 
and  some  swore  they  never  would  be  cheated  ag^in,  let  appearances 
be  what  they  might.  Others  thought  that  this  was  a  resolution 
somewhat  equivocal,  and  more  convenient  than  happy.  For  our 
|>arts,  we  think  the  last  were  right :  and  this  reminds  us  of  a  true 


8&  THE  iNDICATOR. 

English  story,  more  good  thatt*striking,  which  we  beard  a  short  while 
agx)  from  a  friend.  He  kne\i«ii.  man  of  rugged  manners,  but  good 
hoait  (not  that  the  two  thing^  as  a  lover  of  parenthesis  will  say,  are 
at.  all  bound  to  go  together)  y,'  who  had  a  wife  somewhat  given  to 
debating  with  hackney-coaGhnlen,  and  disputing  acts  of  settlement 
respecting  half  miles,  and  quaii  ter  miles,  and  abominable  additional 
sixpences.  The  good  housewife  was  lingering  at  the  door,  and  ex- 
claiming against  one  of  thes&m^onstrous  charioteers,  whose  hoarse 
low  voice  was  heard  at  intervals,  full  of  lying  protestations  and  bad 
weather,  when  the  husband  called  out  from  a  back-room,  "  Never 
mind  there,  never  mind  : — let  her  be  cheated  :  let  her  be  cheated." 

This  is  a  digression ;  but  it  is  as  well  to  introduce  it,  in  order 
to  take  away  a  certain  bitterness  out  of  the  mouth  of  the  other's 
moral. 


We  intended  to  introduce  the  following  delightful  little  lyric,  by  a 
fi'iend,  in  very  different  company  from  that  of  the  gentlemen  just 
presented  to  the  reader ;  but  as  Mercury,  who  was  the  god  of  thieves, 
was  also  the  inventor  of  the  lyre,  and  as  Love  himself,  time  out  of 
mindj  has  been  called  a  thief,  it  is  not,  in  all  respects,  inappropri- 
ately situated.  We  may  fancy  Mercury  playing,  and  Love  singing: — - 
and  the  song  is  indeed  worthy  of  the  performers.  It  is  elemental, 
Platonical  5  a  meeting  of  divirieness  with  humanity. 

■I  -  . 

love's  philosobhy. 

The  fountains  mangle  with  the  r^ver, 

And  the  rivers  with  the  ocean  ; 
The  winds  of  hieaven  mix  for  ever 

With  a  sweet  emotion  ; 
Nothing  in  the  world  is  single  ; 

All  things  by  a  law  divine 
In  one  another's  being  mingle  ;— 

Why  not  I  with  tome? 

See  the  mountaij?s  kiss  high  heaven. 

And  the  waves  clasp  one  another; 
No  leaf  or  flower  would  be  forgiven. 

If  it  disdained  to  kiss  it's  brother  ; 
And  the  sunlight  clasps  the  earth, ' 

And  the  moonbeams  kiss  the  sea : 
What  are  all  these  kissings  worth, 
'  If  thou  kiss  not  me  ? 


Orders  received  by  the  Booksellers,  by  the  Neyvsmen,  and  by  the  Publisher, 

Joseph  Appleyard,  19,  Catherine-street,  Strand.— Price  Twopence. 

Prhited  by  C.  H.Reynell,  No.  46,  Broad-street,  Golden-square,  London. 


THE    INDICATOR; 


There  he  arriving  round  about  floth  flie. 
And  takes  survey  with  busie,  curious  eye: 
Now  this,  now  that,  he  tasteth  tenderly, 

Spenser. 


No.  XII.— WEDNESDAY,  DECEMBER  29tii,  1819. 


THIEVES,  ANCIENT  AND  MODERN. 

CONTINUED   FRAM  LAST  WEEK, 

We  now  come  to  a  very  unromantic  set  of  rogues ;  the  Spanish 
ones.  In  a  poetical  sense  at  least  they  are  unromantic;  though 
doubtless  the  mountains  of  Spain  have  seen  as  picturesque  vagabonds 
in  their  time,  as  any.  There  are  the  robbers  in  Gil  Bias,  who  have 
at  least  a  very  respectable  cavern,  and  loads  of  polite  superfluities. 
Who  can  forget  the  lofty-named  Captain  Rolando,  with  his  sturdy 
height  and  his  whiskei-s,  shewing  with  a  lifted  torch  his  treasure 
to  the  timid  stripling  Gil  Bias?  The  most  illustrious  theft  in 
Spanish  stoi-y  is  one  recorded  of  no  less  a  person  than  the  fine  old 
national  hei'o,  the  Cid.  As  the  sufferers  were  Jews,  it  might  be 
thought  that  his  conscience  would  not  have  hurt  him  in  those  days ; 
but  "  My  Cid  "  was  a  kind  of  early  soldier  in  behalf  of  sentiment; 
and  though  he  went  to  work  roughly,  he  meant  nobly  and  kindly. 
"  God  knows,"  said  he,  on  the  present  occasion,  "  I  do  this  thing 
more  of  neceasity  than  of  wilfulness ;  but  by  God's  help  I  shall  re- 
deem all."  The  case  was  this.  The  Cid,  who  was  too  good  a  sub- 
ject to  please  his  niaster  the  king,  had  quarrelled  with  him,  or  rather 
had  been  banished;  and  nobody  was  to  give  him  house-room  or  food. 
A  number  of  friends  however  followed  him  ;  and  by  the  help  of  his 
nephew  Martin  Antolinez,  he  proposed  to  raise  some  money.  Martin 
accordingly  negociated  the  business  with  a  couple  of  rich  Jews,  who 
for  a  deposit  of  two  chests  full  of  spoil,  which  they  were  not  to  open 
for  a  year,  on  account  of  political  circumstances,  agreed  to  advance 
.sis  hundred  marks.  "  Well  then,  said  Martin  Antolinez,  ye  see  that 
the  night  is  advancing ;^  the  Cid  is  in  haste,  give  us  the  marks.  This 
is  not  the  way  of  business,  said  they ;  we  must  take  first,  and  then 
give." — Martin  accordingly  goes  with  them  to  the  Cid,  who  in  the 
mean  time  has  filled  a  couple  of  heavy  chests  with  sand.  The  Cid 
smiled  as  they  kissed  his  hand,  and  said,  "  Ye  see  I  am  going  out  of 
the  land  because. of  the  king's  displeasure;  but  I  shall  leave  some- 
thing with  ye."  The  Jews  made  a  suitable  answer,  and  were  then 
desired  to  take  the  chests ;  but  though  strong  men,  they  could  not 
raise  them  from  the  ground.     This  put  them  in  such  spirits^  tkat 


90  THE  INDICATOR. 

after  telling  out  the  six  hundred  marks,  (which  Don  Martin  took 
without  weighing)  they  offered  the  Cid  a  present  of  a  fine  red  skin  5 
and  upon  Don  Martin's  suggesting  that  he  thought  his  own  services 
in  the  business  merited  a  pair  of  hose,  they  consulted  a  minute  with 
each  other,  in  order  to  do  every  thing  judiciously ;  and  then  gave 
him  money  enough  to  buy,  not  only  the  hose,  but  a  rich  doublet  and 
good  cloak  into  the  bargain.* 

The  regular  sharping  rogues  however,  that  abound  in  Spanish 
books  of  adventure,  have  one  species  of  romance  about  them,  of  a 
very  peculiar  nature.  Jt  may  be  called,  we  fear,  as  far  as  Spain  is 
concerned,  a  ''  romance  of  real  life."  We  allude  to  the  absolute 
want  and  hunger,  which  is  so  often  the  original  of  their  sin.  A  vein 
of  this  craving  nature  runs  throughout  most  of  the  Spanish  novels. 
In  other  countries,  theft  is  generally  represented  as  the  result  of  an 
abuse  of  plenty,  or  some  other  kind  of  pi'ofligacy,  or  absolute  ruin. 
But  it  seems  to  be  an  understood  thing,  that  to  be  poor  in  Spain  is 
to  be  in  want  of  the  commonest  necessaries  of  life.  If  a  poor  man 
here  and  there  happens  not  to  be  in  so  destitute  a  state  as  the  rest, 
he  thinks  himself  bound  to  maintain  the  popular  character  for  an  ap- 
petite j  and  manifests  the  most  prodigious  sense  of  punctuality  and 
anticipation  in  all  matters  relating  to  meals.  Who  ever  thinks  of 
Sancho,  and  does  not  think  of  ten  minutes  before  luncheon  ?  Don 
Quixote  on  the  other  hand  counts  it  ungenteel  and  undignified  to  be 
hungry.  The  cheat,  who  flatters  Gil  Bias,  I'eckons  himself  entitled 
to  be  insultingly  triumphant,  merely  because  he  has  got  a  dinner 
out  of  him. 

Of  all  these  ingenious  children  of  necessity,  whose  roguery  has 
been  sharpened  hy  perpetual  want,  no  wit  was  surely  ever  kept  at  so 
subtle  and  fierce  an  edge,  as  that  of  the  never-to-be-decently-treated 
Lazarillo  de  Tormes.  If  we  had  not  been  at  a  sort  of  monastic 
school,  and  known  the  beatitude  of  dry  bread  and  a  draught  of 
spring-water,  his,  history  would  seem  to  inform  lis,  for  the  first 
time,  what  true  hunger  was.  His  cunning  so  truly  keeps  pace 
with  it,  that  he  seems  recompensed  for  the  wants  of  his  stomach 
hy  the  abundant  energies  of  his  head.  One  half  of  his  imagination  is 
made  up  of  dry  bread  and  scraps,  and  the  other  of  meditating  how  to 
get  at  them.  Kvery  thought  of  his  mind,  and  every  feeling  of  his  affec- 
tion, coalesces,  and  tends  to  one  point,  Avith  a  ventripetal  force-  It 
was  said  of  a  contriving  lady,  that  she  took  her  very  tea  by  stratagem, 
Lazarillo  is  not  so  lucky.  It  is  enough  for  him,  if  by  a  train  of  the 
most  ingenious  contrivances,  he  can  lay  successful  sieg^  to  a'  crust. 
To  rout  some  broken  victuals  j  to  circumvent  an  onion  or  so  extra- 
ordinary, is  the  utmost  ainv  of  his  ambition.     An  ox-foot  is  his  beau 

*  See  Mr.  Southey's  excellerit  compilation  entitled  the  Chronicle  of  the  Cid. 

Books,  Sec.  21.     If  Mr.  Southey but  we   nfust  recollect  we  are  not  at  our 

politics.  The  version  at  the  end  of  the  book,  attributed  to  Mr.  Hookhara  Frere, 
of  a  passage  out  pf  the  Poenia  del  Cid,  is  the  most  native  and  terse  bit  of  trans- 
lation we  ever  met  with.  It  rides  along,  like  the  Cid  himself  on  horseback,  with 
an  iafiuitc  mixture  of  ardour  and  self-possessi6n  ;  bending,  when  it  chuses,  with 
grace  ;  or  bearing  down  every  thing  with  mastery. 


THE  INDICATOR.  91 

ideal.  He  has  as  intense  and  circuitous  a  sense  of  a  piece  of  cheese, 
as  a  mouse  at  a  trap.  He  swallows  surreptitious  crums  with  as  much 
zest,  as  a  young  servant  girl  does  a  plate  of  preserves.  But  to  his 
story.  He  first  serves  a  blind  beggar,  with  whom  he  lives^  miserably, 
except  when  he  commits  thefts  which  subject  him  to  miserable 
beatings.  H«e  next  lives  with  a  priest,  and  finds  his  condition  worse. 
His  third  era  of  esuriency  takes  place  in  the  house  of  a  Spanish  gen- 
tleman ;  and  here  he  is  worse  off  than  ever.  The  reader  wonders,  as 
he  himsejf  did,  how  he  can  possibly  ascend  to  this  climax  of  starvation. 
To  overreach  a  blind  beggar,  might  be  thought  easy.  The  reader 
will  judge  by  a  specimen  or  two.  The  old  fellow  used  to  keep  his 
mug  of  liquor  between  his  legs,  that  Lazarillo  might  not  touch  it 
without  his  knowledge.  He  did  however ;  and  the  beggar  (discovering 
it,  took  to  holding  the  mug  in  future  by  the  handle.  Lazarillo  then 
contrives  to  suck  some  of  the  liquor  off"  with  a  reed  3  till  the  beggar 
defeats  this  contrivance  by  keeping  one  hand  upon  the  vessel's  mouth. 
His  antagonist,  upon  this,  makes  a  hole  near  the  bottom  of  the  mug, 
filling  it  up  with  wax,  and  so  tapping  the  can  with  as  much  gentle- 
ness as  possible,  whenever  his  thirst  makes  him  bold.  This  stratagem 
threw  the  blind  man  into  despair.  He  "  used  to  swear  and  domineer,'' 
and  wish  both  the  pot  and  it's  contents  at  the  devil.  The  following 
account  of  the  result  is  a  specimen  of  the  English  translation  of  the 
work,  which  is  done  with  great  tact  and  spirit,  we  know  not  by 
whom.  But  it  is  worthy  of  De  Foe.  Lazarillo  is  supposed  to  tell 
his  adventures  himself.  "  You  won't  accuse  me  any  more,  I  hope," 
cried  J,  "of  drinking  your  wine*,  after  all  the  fine  precautions  you 
have  taken  to  prevent  it."  To  that  he  said  not  a  word;  but  feeling 
all  about  the  pot,  he  at  last  unluckily  discovfered  the  hole,  which 
dissembling  at  that  time,  he  let  me  alone  till  next  day  at  dinner. 
Not  di'eaming,  my  reader  must  know,  of  the  old  man's  malicious 
stratagem,  but  getting  in  betAveen  his  legs,  according  to  my  wonted 
custom,  and  receiving  into  my  mouth  the  distilling  dew,  and  pleasing 
myself  with  the  success  of  my  own  ingenuity,  my  eyes  upward,  but 
half  shut,  the  furious  tyrant,  taking  up  the  sweet,  hut  hard  pot,  with 
both  his  hands  flung  it  down  again  with  all  his  force  upon  my  face ; 
with  the  violence  of  which  blow,  imagining  the  house  had  fallen 
upon  my  head,  I  lay  sprawling  without  any  sentiment  or  judgment ; 
my  forehead,  nose  and  mouth,  gushing  otit  of  blood,  and  the  latter 
full  of  broken  teeth,  and  broken  pieces  of  the  can.  From  that  time 
forward,  I  ever  abominated  the  monstrous  old  churl,  and  in  spite  of 
all  his  flattering  stories,  could  easily  observe,  how  my  punishment 
tickled  the  old  rogue's  fancy.  He  washed  my  sores  with  wine  ;  and 
with  a  smile,  "  What  say'st  thou,"  quoth  he,  ''Lazarillo;  the  thing 
that  hurt  thee,  now  restores  thee  to  health.  Courage,  my  boy." 
But  all  his  raillery  could  not  make  me  change  my  mind." 

At  another  time,  a  countryman  giving  them  a  cluster  of  gi'apes, 
the  old  man,  says  Lazarillo,   "  would  needs  take  that  opportunity  to 

*  The  reader  is  to  upderstand  a  common  southern  wine,  more  like  a  washy 
cyder  than  any  thing  else. 


92        ^  THE  INDICATOR. 

shew  me  a  little  kindness^  after  he  had  been  chiding  and  beating  me 
the  whole  day  before.  So  setting  ourselves  down  by  a  liedge^ 
'[  Come  hither,  Lazarillo,"  quotli  he^  "  and  let  us  enjoy  ourselves  a 
little,  and  eat  these  raisins  togettierj  which  that  we  may  share  like 
brothers,  do  you  take  but  one  at  a  time,  and  be  sure  not  to  cheat  me, 
and  I  promise  you  for  my  part,  1  shall  take  no  move."  That  I 
readily  agreed  to,  and  so  we  began  our  banquet  3  but  at  the  very 
second  time  he  took  a  couple,  believing,  I  suppose,  that  I  would  do 
the  same.  And  finding  he  had  shewed  me  the  way,  I  made  ho 
scruple  all  the  while  to  take  two,  three,  or  four  at  a  time  ;  sometimes 
more  and  sometimes  less,  as  conveniently  I  could.  When  we  had 
done,  the  old  man  shook  his  head,  and  holding  the  stalk  in  his  hand, 
'^'^Thou  hast  cheated  me,  Lazarillo,"  quoth  he,  "  for  I  could  take  my 
oath,  that  thOu  hast  taken  three  at  a  time."  "  Who  I  !  J  beg  your 
pardon,"  qtioth  I,  "  my  conscience  is  as  dear  to  me  as  another." 
"  Pass  that  jest  upon  another,"  answered  the  old  foxj"  you  saw  me 
take  two  at  a  time  without  complaining  of  it,  and  therefore  you  took 
three."  At  that  I  could  hardly  forbear  laughing;  and  at  the  same 
time  admired-  the  justness  of  his  reasoning."  Lazarillo  at  length 
quitted  the  service  of  the  old  hard-hearted  miser,  an<l  revenged  him- 
self upon  him  at  the  same  time,  in  a  very  summary  manner.  They 
were  returning  home  one  day  on  account  of  bad  weather,  when  they 
had  to  cross  a  kennel  which  the  rain  had  swelled  to  a  little  torrent. 
The  beggar  was  about  to  jump  over  it  as  well  as  he  could,  when. 
Lazarillo  persuaded  him  to  go  a  little  lower  down  ihe  stream,  because 
there  was  a  better  crossing ;  that  is,  there  was  a  stone  pillar  on  the 
other  side,  against  which  he  knew  the  blind'  old  fellow  would 
nearly  dash  his  brains, out.  ''He  was  mightily  pleased  with  my  advice, 
"  Thou  art  in  the  right  on  it,  good  boy,"  quoth  he,  "  and  I  love 
thee  with  all  my  heart,  Lazarillo.  Lead  me  to  the  place  thou 
speakest  of;  the  water  is  very  dangerous  in  winter,  and  especially  to 
have  one's  feet  wet."  And  again  : — "  Be  sure  to  set  me  in  the  right 
place,  Lazarillo,"  quoth  hej  '' and  then  do  thou  go  over  first."  I 
obeyed  his  orders,  and  set  him  exactly  before  the  pillar,  and  so  leap- 
ing over,  posted  myself  behind  it,  looking  upon  him  as  a  man  would 
do  upon  a  mad  bull.  "  Now  your  jump,"  quoth  I,  "  and  you  may 
get  over  to  rights,  without  ever  touching  the  water."  I  had  scarce 
done  speaking,  when  the  old  man,  like  a  ram  that's  fighting,  ran 
three  steps  backwards,  to  take  his  start  with  the  greater  vigour,  and 
so  his  head  came  with  a  vengeance  against  the  stone- pillar,  which 
made  him  fall  back  into  the  kennel  half  dead."  Lazarillo  stops  a 
moment  to  triumph  over  him  with  insulting  language  ;  and  then, 
says  he,  "  resigning  my  blind,  bruised,  wet,  old,  cross,  cunning 
master,  to  the  care  of  the  mob  that  was  gathered  about  him,  I  made 
the  best  of  my  heels,  without  ever  looking  about,  till  I  had  got  the 
town-gate  upon  my  back ;  and  thence,  marching  on  a  merry  pace,  I 
arrived  before  night  at  Torrigo." 

At  the  house  of  the  priest,  poor  Lazarillo  gets  worse  off  than 
before,  and  is  obliged  to  resort  to  the  most  extraordinary  shifts  to 
arrive  at  a  morsel  of  bread.     At  one.  time,  he  gets  a  key  of  a  tinker. 


THE  INDICATOR.  93 

and  opening  the  old  trunk  in  which  tlie  miser  kept  his  bread,  (a 
sight;,  he  sayS;,  like  the  opening' of  heaven)  he  takes  small  pieces  out 
of  three  or  four,  in  imitation  of  a  mouse';  which  so  convinces  the  old 
hunks  that  the  mice  and  rats  have  been  at  them,  that  he  is  more 
liberal  of  the  bread  than  usual.  He  lets  him  have  in  particular  ''the 
parings  about  the  parte  where  he  thought  the  mice  had  been." 
Another  of  his  contrivances  is  to  palm  off  his  pickings  upon  a  serpent, 
with  which  animal  a  neighbour  told  the  priest  that  his  house  had 
been  oncc^  haunted.  Lazarillo,  who  had  been  used  when  he  lived 
with  the  beggar  to  husband  pieces  of  money  in  his  mouth,  (substi- 
tuting some  lesser  coin  in  the  blind  man's  hand,  when  people  gave 
him  any  thing)  now  employs  the  same  hiding-place  for  hi*  key ;  but 
whistling  through  it  unfortunately,  one  night,  as  he  lay  breathing 
haK(l  in  his  sleep,  the  priest  concludes  he  has  now  caught  the  serpent, 
and  going  to  Lazarillo's  bed  with  a  broomstick,  gives  him  at  a  venture 
such  a  tremendous  blow  on  the  head,  as  half  murders  him''.  The  key 
is  then  discovered,  and  the  poor  fellow  turned  out  of  doors. 

He  is  now  hired  by  a  lofty-looking  hidalgo  ;  and  follows  him  homsj 
eating  a  thousand  good  things  by.  anticipation.  They  pass  through 
the  markets  however  to  no  purpose.  The  squire  first  goes  to  church 
too,  and  spends  an  unconscionable  time  at  mass.  At  length  they 
arrive  at  a  dreary,  ominous  looking  house,  and  ascend  into  a  decent 
apartment,  where  the  squire  after  shaking  his  cloak,  and  blowing  off 
the  dust  from  a  stone  seat,  lays  it  neatly  dowl5,  and  so  makes  a 
cushion  of  it  to  sit  upon.  There  is  no  other  furniture  in  the  room, 
nor  even  in  the  neighbouring  I'ooms,  except  a  bed  "  composed  of  the 
anatomy  of  an  old  hamper."  The  truth  is,  the  squire  is  as  poor  as 
Lazarillo,  only  too  proud  to  own  it ;  and  so  he  starves  both  himself 
and  his  servant  at  home,  and  then  issues  gallantly  forth  of  a  morning, 
with  his  Toledo  by  his  side,  and  a  countenance  of  stately  satisfaction , 
returning  home  every  day  about  noon  with  "  a  starched  body, 
reaching  out  his  neck  like  a  grey-hound."  Lazarillo  had  not  been  a 
day  in  the  house,  before  he  found  out  how  matters  went.  He  was 
beginning,  in  his  despair  of  a  dinner^  to  eat  some  scraps  of  bread 
which  had  been  given  him  in  the  morning,  when  the  squire  observing 
him,  asked  what  he  was  about.  ""Come  hither,  boy,"  said  he,  "  what's 
that  thou  art  eating?"  "  I  went,"  says  Lazarillo,  "  and  shewed  him 
three  pieces  of  bread,  of  which  "taking  away  the  best,  "  upon  my 
faith,"  quoth  he,  "  this  bread  seems  to  be  very  good."  "  Tis  too 
stale  and  hard.  Sir,"  said  I,  "  to  be  good."  "  I  swear  'tis  very 
good,"  said  the  squire :  "  Who  gave  it  thee  ?  Were  their  hands 
clean  that  gave  it  thee?"  "  I  took  it  without  asking  any  questions. 
Sir,"  answered  I,  "  and  you  see  I  eat  it  as  freely."  "  Pray  God  it 
may  be  so,"  answered  the  miserable  squire;  and  so  putting  the 
bread  to  his  mouth,  he  eat  it  with  no  less  appetite  than  I  did  mine  j 
adding  at  every  mouthful,  "  Gadzooks,  this  bread  is  excellent." 

Lazarillo  in  short  here  finds  the  bare  table  so  completely  turned 
upon  him,  that  he  is  forced  to  become  provider  for  his  master  as  well 
as  himself ;  which  he  does  by  fairly  going  out  every  day  and  begging, 
the  poor  squire  winking  at  the  indignity,  though  not  without  a  hint 


94  THE  INDICATOR. 

at  keeping  the  connexion  secret.  The  following  extract  shall  be  our 
climax,  which  it  may  well  be,  the  hunger  having  thus  ascended  into 
the  ribs  of  Spanish  aristocracy.  Lazarillo,  one  lucky  day,  has  an 
pX'foot  and  some  tripe  given  him  by  a  butcher-woman.  On  coming 
home  with  his  treasure,  he  finds  the  hidalgo  impatiently  walking  up 
and  down,  and  feais  he  shall  have  a  scolding  for  staying  so  long:  but 
the  squire  merely  asks  whei  e  he  has  been,  and  receives  the  account 
with  an  irrepressible  air  of  delight.  "  I  sate  down,"  says  Lazarillo, 
"  upon  the  end  of  the  stone  seat,  and  began  to  eat  that  he  might 
fency  I  was  feasting ;  and  observed  without  seeming  to  take  notice, 
that  his  ,eye  was  fixed  upon  my  skirt,  which  was  all  the  plate  and 
table  that  I  had. 

''  May  God  pity  me  as  I  had  compassion  on  that  poor  squire;  daily 
experience  made  me  sensible  of  his  trouble.  I  did  not  know  whether 
I  should  invite  him,  for  since  he  had  told  me  he  had  dined,  I 
thought  he  would  make  a  point  of  honour  to  refuse  to  eat ;  but  in 
short,  being  very  desirous  to  supply  his  necessity,  as  I  had  done  the 
day  before,  and  which  I  was  then  much  better  in  a  condition  to  do, 
having  already  sufficiently  stuffed  my  own  guts :  it  was  not  long 
^(efore  an  opportunity  fairly  offered  itself  3  for  he  taking  occasion  to 
come  near  me  in  his  walks,  "  Lazarillo,"  quoth  he,  (as  soon  as  he 
observed  me  begin  to  eat)  "  I  never  saw  any  body  eat  so  handsomely 
as  thee ;  a  body  can  scarce  see  thee  fall  to  work  without  desiring  to 
bear  thee  company :  let  their  stomachs  be  never  so  full,  or  their 
mouth  be  never  so  much  out  of  taste."  Faith,  thought  I  to  myself, 
with  such  an  empty  belly  as  yours,  my  own  mouth  would  water  at 
a  great  deal  less. 

"  But  finding  he  was  come  where  I  wished  him.  "  Sir,"  said  I, 
'^  good  stuff  makes  a  good  woi'kman.  This  is  admirable  bread,  and 
here's  an  ox-foot  so  nicely  drest  and  so  well  seasoned,  that  any  body 
would  delight  to  taste  of  it." 

"^How!"  cried  the  squire,  interrupting  me,  ''^  an  ox- foot?"  '^'^Yes, 
Sir,"  said  I,  "  an  ox-foot."  "  Ah  !  then,"  quoth  he,  "  thou  hast  in 
my  opinion  the  delicatest  bit  in  Spain;  there  being  neither  pailridge, 
pheasant,  nor  any  other  thing  that  I  like  nearly  so  well  as  that." 

"  Will  you  please  to  try.  Sir,"  said  I,  (putting  the  ox-foot  in  his 
hand,  with  two  good  morcels  of  bread)  "  when  you  have  tasted  it, 
you  wiU  be  convinced  that  it  is  a  treat  for  a  king,  'tis  so  well  drest 
and  seasoned.  , 

"  Upon  that,  sitting  down  by  my  side,  he  began  to  eat,  or  rather 
to  devour  what  I  had  given  him,  so  that  the  bones  could  hardly 
escape.  ''^Oh!  the  excellent  bit,"  did  he  cry,  '' that  this  would  be 
with  a  little  garlick."  Ha  !  thought  I  to  myself,  how  hastily  thou 
eatest  it  without  sauce.  "  Gad,"  said  the  squire,  "  I  have  eaten, 
this  as  heartily  as  if  I  had  not  tasted  a  bit  of  victuals  to  day  3"  which 
I  did  very  readily  believe. 

^'  He  then  called  for  the  pitcher  with  the  water,  which  was  as 
full  as  I  had  brought  it  home;  so  you  may  guess  whether  he  had  eat 
any.  When  his  squireship  had  drank,  he  civilly  invited  me  to  do  the 
like ;  and  thus  ended  our  feast." 


THE  INDICATOR.  95 

We  hope  the  reader  is  as  much  amused  with  this  prolongation  of 
the  subject  as  ourselves,  for  we  are  led  on  insensibly  by  these  amusing 
thieves,  and  find  we  shall  have  yet  another  paper  to  write  upon  them, 
before  we  have  done.  We  will  therefore  conclude  the  present  one 
by  giving  another  specimen  or  two  of 'the  sharping  Spaniard  out  of 
Quevedo.  The  Adventures,  by  the  way,  of  Lazarillo  de  Tormes^ 
were  written  in  the  sixteenth  century  by  a  Spanish  gentleman,  appa- 
rently of  illustrious  family,  Don  Diego  de  Mendoza,  who  was  some- 
time ambassador  at  Venice.  This  renders  the  story  of  the  hidalgo 
still  more  curious.  Not  that  the  author  perhaps  ever  felt  the  proud 
but  condescending  pangs  which  he  describes ;  this  is  not  necessary 
for  a  man  of  imagination.  He  merely  meant  to  give  a  hint  to  the 
poorer  gentry  not  to  overdo  the  matter  on  the  side  of  loftiness,  for 
their  own  sakes ;  and  hunger,  whether  among  the  proud  or  the 
humble,  was  too  national  a  thing,  not  to  be  entered  into  by  his 
statistic  apprehension. 

The  most  popular  work  connected  with  sharping  adventures  in 
Gil  Bias,  which  though  known  to  us  as  a  French  production,  seems 
unquestionably  to  have  originated  in  the  country  where  the  scene  is 
laid.  It  is  a  work  exquisitely  easy  and  true ;  but  somehow  we  have 
no  fancy  for  the  knaves  in  it.  They  are  of  too  smooth,  sneaking, 
and  safe  a  cast.  They  neither  bespeak  one's  sympathy  by  necessity, 
nor  one's  admiration  by  daring.  We  except,  of  course,  the  robbers 
before-mentioned,  who  are  a  picturesque  patch  in  the  work,  like  a 
piece  of  rough  poetry. 

Of  the  illustrious  Guzman  d'Alfarache,  the  most  popular  book  of 
the  kind,  we  believe,  in  Spain,  and  admired,  we  know,  in  this 
country  by  some  excellent  judges,  we  cannot  with  propriety  speak, 
for  we  have  only  read  a  few  pages  at  the  beginning ;  though  we  read 
those  twice  over,  at  two  different  times,  and  each  time  with  the  same 
intention  of  going  on.  In  truth,  as  Guzman  is  called  by  way  of 
eminence  the  Spanish  Rogue,  we  must  say  for  him,  as  far  as  our 
slight  acquaintance  warrants  it,  that  he  is  also  "  as  tedious  as  a  king." 
They  say  however  he  has  excellent  stuff  in  him. 

We  can  speak  as  little  of  Marcos  de  Obregon,  of  which  a  transla- 
tion appeared  a  little  while  ago.     We  have  read  it ;  and  if  we  re- 
member rightly,   were  plea,sed;  but  want  of  memory  on  these  occa- 
sions is  not  a  good  symptom.     Quevedo,  no  ordinary  person,  is  very 
amusing.    His  Visions  of  Hell  in  particular,  though  of  a  very  different 
kind  from  Dante's,  are  more  edifying.     But  our  business  at  present 
is  with  his  "  History  of  Paul  the  Spanish  Sharper,  the  Pattern  of 
Rogues  and  Mirror  of  Vagabonds."'   We  do  not  know  that  he  deserves 
these  appellations  so  much  as  some  others  j  but  they  are  to  be  looked 
I  . upon  as  titular  ornaments,  comijaon  to  the  Spanish  Kleptocracy.    He 
■^  is  extremely  pleasant,  especially  in  his  younger  days.     His  mother, 
who  is  no  better  than  the  progenitor  of  sueh  a  personage  ought  to 
be,   happens  to  have  the  misfortune  one  day  of  being  carted.     Paul, 
who  was  then  school-t»oy,  wag  elected  king  on  some  boyish  holiday? 
and  riding  out  upon  a  half-starved  horse,  it  picked  up  a  small  cabbage, 
i  ^  they  went  through  the  market.     The  market-women  began  pelt- 
l   ing;  the  king  with  rotten  oranges,  and  turnip- tops  j   upon  which. 


9(i  THE  INDICATOR. 

having  feathers  in  his  cap,  and  getting  a  notion  in  his  head  that  they 
mistook  him  for  his  mother,  who  agreeably  to  a  Spanish  custom  was 
tricked  out  in  the  same  manner  when  she  was  carted,  he  halloed  out, 
"^  Good  women,  though  I  wear  feathers  in  my  cap,  I  am  none  of 
Alonza  Saturno  de  Rebillo.     She  is  my  mother." 

Paul  used  to  be  set  upon  unlucky  tricks  by  the  son  of  a  man  of 
rank,  who  preferred  enjoying  a  joke  to  getting  punished  for  it. 
Among  others,  one  Christmas,  a  counselloi-  happening  to  go  by  of  the 
nanle  of  Pontio  de  Auguirre,   the  little  Don   told  his  companion  to 

'call  Pontius  Pilate,  and  then  to.  run  away.     He  did  so,  and  the  angry 

•counsellor  followed  after  him  with  a  knife  in  his  hand,  so  that  he 
was  forced  to  take  refuge  in  the  house  of  the  schoohnaster.  The 
lawyer  laid  his  indictment,   and  Paul  got  a  heaity  flogging,  during 

-which  he  was  enjoined  never  to  call  Pontius  Pilate-again  j   to  which 

,he  heartily .  agreed.  The  consequence  was,  that  next  day,  when 
the  boys  were  at  prayers,  Paul,  coming  to  the  belief,  and  thinking 
that  he  was  never  again  to  name  Pontius  Pilate,  gravely  said,  "  Suf- 
fered under  Pontio  de  Auguirre;"  which  evidence  of  his  horror  of 
the  scourge  so  interested  the  pedagogue,  that  by  a  Catholic  mode  of 

•  dispensation,  he  absolved  hira  from  the  next  two  whippings  he  should 

.iaeur..     ■   . 

But  we  forget,   that  our  little  picaro  was  a  thief.     One  specimen 

,  of  his  talents  this  way,  and  we  have  done  with  the  Spaniards.  He 
went  vvith  young  Don  Diego-  to  the  university :  and  here  getting 
applause  for  some  tricks  he  played  people,  and  dandling,  as  it  were, 
his  growing  propensity  to  theft,  he  invited  his  companions  one  even- 
ing to  ^ee   him  steal  a  box  of  comfits  from  a  confectioner's.     He 

.  according  draws  his  rapier,  which  was  stiff  and  well  pointed  ;  runs 
violently  into  the  shop.j  and  exclaiming  "  You're  a  dead  man," 
majkes  a  fierce  lunge  at  the  confectioner  between  the  body  and  arm. 
Down  drops  the  man,  half  dead  with  fear  :  the  others  rush  out. 
Birt  what  of  the  box  of  comfits  ?  "  Where  are  the  box  of  comfits, 
Paul?''  said  the  rogues ;  /'  we  do  not  see  what  you  have  done  .after 
all,  except  frighten  the  fellow."     ''  Look  here,  my  boys,"  answered 

.Paul\     They  looked,  and  at  the  end  of  his  rapier  beheld,  vvith  shouts 

:>Qf  laughter,  the  vanquished  box.     He  had  marked  it  out  on  tbe^ 
shelf;  and  under  preteni^e;  of  lunging  at  the  confectioner,   pinked  it 
away  like  a  muffin.       .     .        .  ^  . 

Upon  turning  to  Quevedo,  we  find  that  the  story  has  grown  a  little 
upon  our  memory,  as  to  detail ;  but  this  is  the  spirit  of  it.  The 
prize  here,  it  is  to  be  observed,  is  something  eatable  ;  and  the  same 
yearning  is  a  predominant  property  of  Quevedo's  sharpers,  as  well  as 

:  the  others. 

Adieu,  ye  pleasant  rogues  of  S^jiin !  ye  surmounters  of  bad  go- 
vernment, hunger,  and  misery,   by  the  mere  force  of  a  light  climate 

and  fingers  !  The  dinner  calls  ;— and  to  talk  about  you  before  it,  is 
as  good  as  taking  a  ride  on  horseback. 


'Orders  received  by  the  Booksellers,j»y  the  Newsmen,  and  by  the  Publisher, 
'"-^' "        Joseph  Appleyard,  19,  Catheri|)e-street,  Strand. — Price  Twopence. 
. ''^"Printed  by  C.  H.  Reynell,  No.  45JriiBroad-street,  Golden-square,  Ix>ndoD. 


iJ 


THE    INDICATOR. 


There  he  arriving  round  about  dotb  flie^ 
And  takes  survey  with  busie,  curious  eye: 
Now  this,  now  that,  he  tasteth  tenderly. 

Spenser. 


No.  XIII.— WEDNESDAY,   JANUARY   5th,  1820. 


THIEVES,  ANCIENT  AND  MODERN. 

CONCLUDED  FROM    LAST   WEEK. 

We  must  return  a  moment  to  the  Italian  thieves,  to  relate  a  cou- 
ple of  stories  related  of  Ariosto  and  Tasso.  The  former  was  for 
a  short  period  governor  of  Grafagnana,  a  disturbed  district  in  the 
Apennines,  which  his  prudent  and  gentle  policy  brought  back  from 
it's  disaffection.  Among  it's  other  troubles,  were  numerous  bands  of 
robbers,  two  of  the  names  of  whose  leaders,  Domenico  Maroco,  and 
Filippo  Pacchione,  have  come  down  to  posterity.  Ariosto,  during 
the  first  days  of  his  government,  was  riding  out  with  a  small  retinue, 
when  he  had  to  pass  through  a  number  of  suspicious-looking  armed 
-men.  The  two  parties  had  scarcely  cleared  each  other,  when  the 
chief  of  the  strangers  aske4'  a  servant  who  happened  to  be  at  some 
distance  behind  the  others j  who  that  person  was.  "  It  is  the  cap- 
tain of  the  citadel  here,"  said  the  man,  "  Lodovico  Ariosto."  The 
stranger  no  sooner  heard  the  name,  than  he  went  running  back  to 
overtake  the  governor,  wlio,  stopping  his  horse,  waited  with  some 
anxiety  for  the  event.  "^  I  beg  your  pardon,  Sir,"  said  he,  ''  but  I 
was  not  aware  that  so  great  a  person  as  the  Signor  Lodbvico  Ariosto 
was  passing  near  me.  My  name  is  Filippo  PaCchione ;  and  when  I 
knew  who  it  was,  I  could  not  go  on  witliout  returning  to  pay  the 
respect  due  to  so  illustrious  a  name."    - 

A  doubt  is  thrown  on  this  story,  or  rather  on  the  particular 
person  who  gave  occasion  to  it,  by  the  similarity  of  an  adven- 
ture related  of  Tasso.  Both  of  them  however  are  very  probable, 
let  the  similarity  be  what  it  may;  for  both  the  poets  had  occasion 
to  go  through  disturbed  districts;  robbers  abounded  in  both  their 
times;  and  the  leaders  being  most  probably  men  rather  of  desperate 
fortunes  than  want  of  knowledge,  were  likely  enough  to  seize  such 
opportunities  of  vindicating  their  better  habits,  and  shewing  a  ro- 
mantic politeness.  The  enthusiasm  too  is  quite  in  keeping  with  the 
national  character ;  and  it  is  to  be  observed  that  the  particulars  of 
Tasso's  adventnre  are  different,  though  the  spirit  of  it  is  the 
same.  He  was  journeying,  it  is  said,  in  company  with  others,  for 
better  security  against  the  banditti  who  infested  the  borders  of  the 


98      "  THE  INDICATOR. 

papal  territory,  when  they  were  told  that  Sciarra,  a  famous  robber, 
was  at  hand  in  considerable  force.-  Tasso  was  for  pushing  on,  and 
defending  themselves  if  attacked  j  but  his  opinion  was  overruled  j 
and  the  company  threw  themselves,  for  safety,  into  the  city  of  Mola. 
Here  Sciarra  kept  them  in  a  manner  blocked  up  j  but  hearing  that 
Tasso  was  among  the  travellers,  he  sent  him  word  that  he  should 
not  only  be  allowed  to  pass,  but  should  have  safe  conduct  whitherso- 
ever he  pleased.  The  lofty  poet,  making  it  a  matter  of  delicacy 
perhaps  to  waive  an  advantage  of  which  his  company  could  not  par- 
take, declined  the  offer,  upon  which  Sciarra  sent  another  message, 
saying  that  upon  the  sole  account  of  Tasso,  the  ways  should  be  left 
open.     And  they  were  so. 

We  can  call  to  mind  no  particular  German  thieves,  except  those 
who  figure  in  romances,  and  in  the  Robbers  of  Schiller.  To  say  the 
truth,  we  are  writing  just  now  with  but  few  books  to  refer  to ;  and 
the  better  informed  reader  must  pardon  any  deficiences  he  meets  with 
in  these  egregious  and  furtive  memorandums.  Of  the  Robbers  of 
Schiller,  an  extraordinary  effect  is  related.  It  is  said  to  have  driven 
a  number  of  wild-headed  young  Germans  upon  playing  at  banditti, 
not  in  the  bounds  of  a  school  or  university,  but  seriously  in  a  forest. 
The  matter-of-fact  spirit  in  which  a  German  sets  about  being  enthu- 
siastic, is  a  metaphysical  curiosity  which  modern  events  render 
doubly  interesting.  It  is  extremely  worthy  of  the  attention  of  those 
rare  personages,  entitled  reflecting  politicians.  But  we  must  take 
care  again.  It  is  very  inhuman  of  these  politics,  that  the  habit  of 
attending  to  them,  though  with  the  greatest  good-will  and  sincerity, 
will  always  be  driving  a  man  upon  thinking  how  his  fellow- creatures 
are  going  on. 

There  is  a  pleasant  well-known  story  of  a  Prussian  thief  and  Frede- 
rick the  Second.  [The  mention,  by  the  way,  of  these  two  personages 
together  puts  us  in  mind  of  the  Scottish  answer  to  travellers  about  a 
mile  and  a  bittock, — the  said  bittock,  or  little  bit,  being  perhaps 
three  or  four  miles  in  addition. 

Reader.  There,  Mr.  Indicator,  you  get  upon  politics  again. 

Indie.  What,  Sir  j  upon  modern  politics  ? 

Read.  I  think  so. 

Indie.  But  I  cannot  help  it,  you  know,  if  past  history  applies  to 
present  events ;  or  at  least,  if  your  wicked  imagination  makes  it 
apply. 

Read.  Oh,  ho  :  you  have  me  there. 

Indie.  I  trust  you  have  me  every  where.] 

We  forget  what  was  the  precise  valuable  found  upon  the  Prussian 
soldier,  and  missed  from  an  image  of  the  Virgin  Mary ;  but  we  be- 
lieve it  was  a  ring.  He  was  tried  for  sacrilege,  and  the  case  appeared 
clear  against  him,  when  he  puzzled  his  Catholic  judges  by  inform- 
ing them,  that  the  fact  was,  the  Virgin  Mary  had  given  him  that 
ring.  Here  was  a  terrible  dileiTima.  To  dispute  the  possibility  or 
even  probability  of  a  gift  from  the  Virgin  Mary,  was  to  deny  their 
religion :  while,  on  the  other  hand,  to  let  the  fellow  escape  on  the 
pretence/ Was  to  ciinonize  impudence  itself.    The  worthy  judges,  in 


THE  INDICATOR.  99 

their  perplexity,  applied  to  the  king,  who  under  the  guise  of  behav- 
ing delicately  to  their  faith,  was  not  sorry  to  have  such  an  oppor- 
tunity of  joking  it.  His  majesty  therefore  pronounced,  with  be- 
coming gravity,  that  the  allegation  of  the  soldier  could  not  but  have 
it's  due  weight  with  all  Catholic  believers ;  but  that  in  future,  it  was 
forbidden  any  Prussian  subject,  military  or  civil,  to  accept  a  present 
from  the  Virgin  Mary. 

The  district,  formerly  rendered  famous  by  the  exploits  of  Scander- 
beg.  Prince  of  Epirus,  and  now  become  infamous  by  the  tyranny  of 
Ali  Bey,  has  been  very  fertile  in  robbers.  And  no  wonder,  for  a- 
serrji-barbarous  people  so  governed  become  thieves  by  necessity.  The 
name  indeed,  as  well  as  profession,  is  in  such  good  receipt  with  an 
Albanian,  that  according  to  late  travellers,  it  is  a  common  Ihing  for 

him  to  begin  a  story  by  saying,   "  When  I  was  a  robber "     We 

remember  reading  of  some  Albanian  or  Sclavonian  leader  of  banditti, 
who  made  his  enemies  suppose  he  had  a  numerous  force  with  hinij 
by  distributing  military  caps  upon  the  hedges. 

There  are  some  other  nations  who  are  all  thieves,  more  or  less ; 
or  comprise  such  numbers  of  them  as  very  much  militate  against 
the  national  character.  Such  are  the  piratical  Malays  ;  the  still 
more  infamous  Algeriiies;  the  m.ongrel  tribes  between  Arabia  and 
Abyssinia.  As  to  the  Arabs,  they  have  a  prescriptive  right,  from 
tradition  as  well  as  local  circumstances,  to  plunder  every  body.  The 
sanguinary  ruffians  of  Ashantee  and  other  black  empires  on  the  coast 
of  Guinea  are  more  like  a  government  of  murderers  and  ogres,  than 
thieves.  They  are  the  next  ruffians  perhaps  in  existence,  to  slave- 
dealers.  The  gentlest  nation  of  pilferers  are  the  Otaheiteans ;  and 
something  is  to  be  said  for  their  irresistible  love  of  hatchets  and  old 
nails.  Let  the  European  trader,  that  is  without  sin  cast  the  first 
paragraph  at  them.  Let  him  think  what  he  should  feel  inclined  to 
do,  were  a  ship  of  some  unknown  nation  to  come  upon  his  coast,  with 
gold  and  jewels  lying  scattered  about  the  deck.  For  no  less  precious 
is  iron  to  the  South  Sea  Islander.  A  Paradisaical  state  of  existence 
would  be,  to  him,  not  the  Golden,  but  the  Iron  Age.  An  Otaheitean 
Jupiter  would  visit  his  Danae  in  a  shower  of  tenpenny  nails. 

We  are  now  come  to  a  very  multitudinous  set  of  candidates  for 
the  halter,  the  thieves  of  our  own  beloved  country.  For  what  we 
know  of  the  French  thieves  is  connected  with  them,  excepting  Car- 
touche ;  and  we  remember  nothing  of  him,  but  that  he  was  a  great 
ruffian,  and  died  upon  that  worse  ruffian,  the  rack. 

There  is,  to  be  sure,  a  very  eminent  instance  of  a  single  theft  in 
the  Confessions  of  Rousseau ;  and  it  is  the  second  greatest  blot  in  his 
book ;  for  he  suffered  a  girl  to  be  charged  with  and  punished  for  the 
theft,  and  maintained  the  lie  to  her  face,  though  she  was  his  friend, 
and  appealed  to  him  with  tears.  But  it  may  be  said  for  him,  at  any 
rate,  that  the  world  woidd  not  have  known  the  story  but  for  him- 
self: and  if  such  a  disclosure  be  regarded  by  some  as  an  additional 
offence  (which  it  may  be  thought  by  some  very  delicate  as  well  as 
dishonest  people),  we  must  recollect,  that  it  was  the  object  of  his 
book  to  give  a  plain  unsophisticated  account  of  a  human  being's  ex- 


100  THE  INDICATOR. 

periences ;  and  that  many  persons  of  excellent  repute  would  have 
been  found  to  have  committed  actions  as  bad,  had  they  given  accounts 
of  themselves  as  candid.  Dr.  Johnson  vv'as  of  opinion  that  all  chil- 
dren were  thieves  and  liars :  and  somebody,  we  believe  a  Scotchman, 
answered  a  fond  speech  about  human  nature,  by  exclaiming,  that 
"  human  nature  was  a  rogue  and  a  vagabond,  or  so  many  laws  would 
not  have  been  necessary  to  restrain  it."  We  venture  to  differ,  on  this 
occasion,  with  both  Englishman  and  Scotchman.  Laws  in  particular, 
taking  the  bad  with  the  good,  are  quite  as  likely  to  have  made  rogues, 
as  restrained  them.  But  we  see,  at  any  rate,  what  has  been  sus- 
pected of  more  orthodox  persons  than  Rousseau ;  to  say  nothing  of 
less  charitable  advantages  which  might  be  taken  of  such  opinions.  He 
committed  a  petty  theft ;  and  miserably  did  his  false  siiame,  the  pa- 
rent of  so  many  crimes,  make  him  act.  But  he  won  back  to  their 
infants'  lips  the  bosoms  of  thousands  of  mothers.  He  restored  to 
their  bereaved  and  helpless  owners  thousands  of  those  fountains  of 
health  and  joy :  and  before  he  is  abused,  even  for  worse  things  than 
the  theft,  let  those  whose  virtue  consists  in  custom,  think  of  this. 

As  we  Ixave  mixed  fictitious  with  real  thieves  in  this  article,  in  a 
manner,  we  fear,  somewhat  uncritical  (and  yet  the  fictions  are  most 
likely  founded  on  fact ;  and  the  life  of  a  real  thief  is  a  kind  of  dream 
and  romance)  we  will  dispatch  our  fictitious  English  thieves  before 
we  come  to  the  others.  And  we  must  make  shorter  work  of  it  than 
we  intended,  or  we  shall  never  come  to  our  friend  Du  Vail.  The 
length  to  which  this  article  Iras  stretched  out,  week  after  week,  will 
be  a  warning  to  us,  how  we  render  our  paper  liable  to  be  run  away 
with  in  future. 

There  is  a  very  fine  story  of  Three  Thieves  in  Chaucer,  which  we 
must  tell  at  large  another  time.  The  most  prominent  of  the  fabu- 
lous thieves  in  England  is  that  bellipotent  and  immeasurable  wag, 
Falstaff.  If  for  a  momentary  freak,  he  thought  it  villainous  to  steal, 
at  the  next  moment  he  thought  it  villainous  not  to  steal. 

"  Hal,  I  pr'ythee,  trouVjle  me  no  more  with  vanity.  T  would  to 
God  thou  and  I  knew  where  a  commodity  of  good  names  were  to  be 
bought.  An  old  lord  of  the  council  rated  me  the  other  day  in  the 
street,  about  you.  Sir  3  but  I  marked  him  not.  And  yet  he  talked 
very  wisely,  biit  I  I'egarded  him  not.  And  yet  he  talked  wisely ;  and 
in  the  streets,  too. 

P.  Henri/.  Thou  didst  well;  for  ''Wisdom  cries  out  in  the  streets, 
and  no  man  regards  it." 

Falstaff.  O,  thou  hast  damnable  iteration;  and  art,  indeed,  able 
to  corrupt  a  saint.  Thou  hast  done  much  harm  upon  me,  Hal  5 
God  forgive  thee  for  it !  Before  I  knew  thee,  Hal,  I  knew  nothing ; 
and  now  am  I,  if  a  man  should  speak  truly,  little  better  than  one  of 
the  wicked.  I  inust  giA'^e  over  this  life,  and  I  will  give  it  over  :  By 
the  Lord,  an  I  do  not,  I  am  a  villain:  I'll  be  damned  for  never  a 
king's  son  in  Christendom. 

P.  Henry.  Where  shall  we  take  a  purse  to-morrow.  Jack? 

Falstaff.  Where  thou  Avilt,  lad ;  I'll  make  one :  an  I  do  not,  call 
me  villain,  and  baflle  me." 


THE  INDICATOR.  101 

We  must  take  care^how  we  speak  of  Macheath,  or  we  shall  be  said 
to  be  getting  political  again.  Fielding's  Jonathan  Wild  the  Great  is 
also,  in  tliis  sense,  "  caveare  to  the  multitude."  But  we  would  say 
more  of  him,  if  we  had  room.  Count  Fathom,  a  deliberate  scoun- 
drel, compounded  of  the  Jonathan  Wilds  and  the  more  equivocal 
Cagliostros  and  otlier  adventurers,  is  a  thief  not  at  all  to  our  taste. 
We  are  continually  obliged  to  call  his  mother  to  our  recollection,  in 
order  to  bear  him.  The  only  instance  in  which  the  character  of  an. 
absolute  profligate  pickpocket  was  ever  made  comparatively  welcome 
to  our  graver  feelings,  is  in  the  extraordinary  novel  of  Manon  L'Es- 
csLut  by  the  Abbe  Prevost.  It  is  the  story  of  a  young  man  so 
passionately  in  love  with  a  profligate  female,  that  he  follows  her 
through  every  species  of  vice  and  misery,  even  when  she  is  sent  as  a 
convict  to  New  Orleans.  His  love  indeed  is  returned.  He  is  obliged 
to  subsist  upon  her  vices  ;  and  in  return,  is  induced  to  help  her  with 
his  own,  becoming  a  cheat  and  a  swindler  to  supply  her  outrageous 
extravagances.  On  board  the  convict  ship  (if  we  recollect)  he  waits 
on  her  through  every  species  of  squalidness ;  the  convict-dress  and 
her  shaved  head  only  redoubling  his  love  by  the  help  of  pity.  This 
seems  a  shocking  and  very  immoral  book ;  yet  multitudes  of  very 
reputable  people  have  found  a  charm  in  it.  The  fact  is,  not  only  that 
Manon  is  beautifid,  sprightly,  really  fond  of  her  lover,  and  after  all, 
becomes  reformed ;  but  that  it  is  delightful,  and  ought  to  be  so,  to 
the  human  heart,  to  see  a  vein  of  sentiment  and  real  goodness  look- 
ing out  through  all  this  callous  surface  of  guilt.  It  is  like  meeting 
with  a  tree  in  a  squalid  hole  of  a  city, — a  flower,  or  a  frank  face,  in. 
a  reprobate  purlieu.  The  capabilities  of  human  nature  are  not  com- 
promised. The  virtue  alone  seems  natural ;  the  guilt,  as  it  so  often 
is,  seems  ai'tificial,  and  the  result  of  some  bad  education  or  other 
circumstance.  Nor  is  any  body  injured.  It  is  one  of  the  shallowest 
of  all  shallow  notions  to  talk  of  the  harm  of  such  works.  Do  we 
think  nobody  is  to  be  harmed  but  the  virtuous  !  Or  that  there  are 
not  privileged  harms  and  vices  to  be  got  rid  of,  as  well  as  unprivileged  ? 
No  good-hearted  person  will  be  injured  by  reading  Manon  L'Escaut. 
There  is  the  belief  in  goodness  in  it ; — a  faith,  the  want  of  which  does 
so  much  harm  both  to  the  vicious  and  to  the  over- righteous. 

The  prince  of  all  robbers,  English  or  foreign,  is  undoubtedly 
Robin  Hood.  There  is  a  worthy  Scottish  namesake  of  his,  Rob  Roy, 
who  has  been  lately  had  justice  done  to  all  his  injuries  by  a  country- 
man ;  and  the  author,  it  seems,  has  now  come  down  from  the  borders 
to  see  the  Rob  of  the  elder  times  well  treated.  We  were  obliged  to 
tear  ourselves  away  from  his  first  volume*,  to  go  to  this  ill- repaying 
article.  But  Robin  Hood  will  still  remain  the  chief  and  '^gentlest 
of  thieves."  He  acted  upon  a  larger  scale,  or  in  opposition  to  a 
larger  injustice,  to  a  whole  political  system.  He  "  shook  the  super- 
flux"  to  the  poor,  "and  shewed  the  heavens  more  just."  Howeveij, 
what  we  have  to  say  of  him  we  must  keep  till  the  trees  are  in  leaf 
again,  and  the  greenwood  shade  delightful. 

*  Of  Ivanhoe. 


102  THE  INDICATOR. 

We  dismiss,  in  one  rabble-like  heap,  the  real  Jonathan  Wilds,  Aver- 
shaws,  and  other  heroes  of  the  Newgate  Calendai*,  who  have  no  redemp- 
tion in  their  rascality.  And  after  them,  for  gentlemen-valets,  may 
go  the  Barringtnns,  Major  Semples,  and  other  sneaking  rogues,  who 
held  on  a  tremulous  career  of  iniquity  betwixt  pilfering  and  repent- 
ing. Yet  Jack  Snepherd  nmst  not  be  forgotten,  with  his  ingenious 
and  daring  breaks  out  of  prison;  nor  Turpin,  who  is  said  to  have 
ridden  his  horse  with  such  swiftness  from  York  to  London,  that  he 
was  enabled  to  set  up  an  alibi.  We  have  omitted  to  notice  the  cele- 
brated Buccaniers  of  America;  but  these  are  fellows,  with  regard  to 
whom  we  are  willing  to  take  Dogberry's  advice,  and  '^  steal  out  of 
their  company." 

All  hail,  thou  most  attractive  of  scape-graces  ; — thou  most  accom- 
plished of  gentlemen  of  the  road ; — thou,  worthy  to  be  called  one  of 
"  the  minions  of  the  moon," — Monsieur  Claude  Du  Vail, — whom  we 
have  come  such  a  long  and  dangerous  journey  to  see  ! 

Claude  Du  Vail,  according  to  a  pleasant  account  of  him,  in  the 
Harleian  Miscellany,  was  born  at  Domfront  in  Normandy,  in  the 
year  1643,  of  Pierre  du  Vail,  miller,  and  Marguerite  de  la  Roche, 
the  fair  daughter  of  a  tailor.  Being  a  sprightly  boy,  he  did  not 
remain  in  the  country,  but  became  servant  to  a  person  of  quality  at 
Paris ;  and  with  this  gentleman  he  came  over  to  England  at  the 
time  of  the  Restoration.  It  is  difficult  to  say,  which  came  over  to 
pick  the  most  pockets  and  hearts,  Charles  the  Second,  or  Claude  Du 
Vail.  Be  this  as  it  may,  his  "  courses"  of  life,  {"  for,"  says  the 
contemporary  historian,  "  I  dare  not  call  them  vices,")  soon  reduced 
him  to  the  necessity  of  going  upon  the  road  ;  and  here  "  he  quickly 
became  so  famous,  that  in  a,  proclamation  for  the  taking  several 
notorious  highwaymen,  he  had  the  honour  to  be  named  first."  He 
took,  says  his  biographer,  "  the  generous  way  of  padding;"  that  is 
to  say,  he  behaved  with  exemplary  politeness  to  all  coaches,  especially 
those  in  which  there  were  ladies ;  making  a  point  of  frightening 
them  as  amiably  as  possible ;  and  insisting  upon  returning  any 
favourite  trinkets  or  keepsakes,  for  which  they  chose  to'  appeal  to  him 
with  "  their  most  sweet  voices." 

It  was  in  this  character  that  he  performed  an  exploit,  which  is  the 
eternal  feather  in  the  cap  of  highway  gentility.  We  will  relate  it  in 
the  words  of  ijur  informer.  Riding  out  with  some  of  his  confederates, 
"  he  overtakes  a  coach,  which  they  had  set  over  night,  having  in- 
telligence of  a  booty  of  four  hundred  pounds  in  it.  In  the  coach  was 
a  knight,  his  lady,  and  only  one  serving-maid,  who,  perceiving  five 
horsemen  making  up  to  them,  presently  imagined  that  they  were 
beset ;  and  they  i^ere  confirmed  in  this  apprehension,  by  seeing  them 
whisper  to  one  another,  and  ride  backwards  and  forwards.  The  lady, 
to  shew  she  was  not  afraid,  takes  a  flageolet  out  of  her  pocket,  and 
plays  :  Du  Vail  takes  the  hint,  plays  also,  and  excellently  well,  upon 
a  flageolet  of  his  own,  and  in  this  posture  he  rides  up  to  the  coach-side. 
'  Sir,'  says  he,  to  the  person  in  the  coach,  '  your  lady  plays  excel- 
lently, and  I  doubt  not  but  that  she  dances  as  well ;  will  you  please 
to  walk  out  of  the  coach,  and  let  me  have  the  honour  to  dance  one 


THE  INDICATOR.  103 

currant  with  her  upon  the  heath  ?'  '  Sir,'  said  the  person  in  the 
coach,  *  I  dare  not  deny  any  thing  to  one  of  your  quality  and  good 
mind  5  you  seem  a  gentleman,  and  your  request  is  very  reasonable  :' 
which  said,  the  lacquey  opens  the  boot,  out  comes  the  knight,  Du  Vail 
leaps  lightly  off  his  horse,  and  hands  the  lady  out  of  the  coach. 
They  danced,  and  here  it  was  that  Du  Vail  performed  marvels ;  the 
best  master  in  London,  except  those  that  are  French,  not  being  able 
to  shew  such  footing  as  he  did  in  his  great  riding  French  boots. 
The  dancing  being  over,  he  waits  on  the  lady  to  her  coach.  As  the 
knight  was  going  in,  says  Du  Vail  to  him,  '  Sir,  you  have  forgot  to 
pay  the  music  :'  '  No,  I  have  not,'  replies  the  knight,  and  putting 
his  hand  under  the  seat  of  the  coach,  pulls  out  a  hundred  pounds  in 
a  bag,  and  delivers  it  to  him  ;  which  Du  Vail  took  with  a  vei  v  good 
grace,  and  courteously  answered,  '  Sir,  you  are  liberal,  and  shall 
have  no  cause  to  repent  your  being  so  ;  this  liberality  of  yours  shall  ex- 
cuse you  the  other  three  hundred  pounds,'  and,  giving  him  the 
word,  that  if  he  met  with  any  more  of  the  crew,  he  might  pass  un- 
disturbed, he  civilly  takes  his  leave  of  him. 

"  This  story,  I  confess,  justifies  the  great  kindness  the  ladies  had 
for  Du  Vail ;  for  in  this,  as  in  an  epitome,  are  contained  all  things 
that  set  a  man  off  advantageously,  and  make  him  appear,  as  the 
phrase  is,  much  a  gentleman.  First,  here  was  valour,  that  he  and 
but  four  more  durst  assault  a  knight,  a  lady,  a  waiting-gentlewo- 
man, a  lacquey,  a  groom  that  rid  by  to  open  the  gates,  and  the 
coachman,  they  being  six  to  five,  odds  at  football  5  and  besides, 
Du  Vail  had  much  the  worst  cause,  and  reason  to  believe,  that 
whoever  should  arrive,  would  range  themselves  on  the  enemy's 
party.  Then  he  shewed  his  invention  and  sagacity,  that  he  could 
sur  le  champ,  and,  without  studying,  make  that  advantage  of  the 
lady's  playing  on  the  flageolet.  He  evinced  his  skill  in  instrumental 
music,  by  playing  on  his  flageolet  j  in  vocal  by  his  singing ;  for  (as 
I  should  have  told  you  before)  there  being  no  violins,  Du  Vail  sung 
the  currant  himself.  'He  manifested  his  agility  of  body,  by  lightly 
dismounting  off  his  horse,  and  with  ease  and  freedom  getting  up 
again,  when  he  took  his  leave  3  his  excellent  deportment,  by  his  in- 
comparable dancing,  and  his  graceful  manner  of  taking  the  hundred 
pounds  ;  his  generosity,  in  taking  no  more  ;  his  wit  and  eloquence, 
and  readiness  at  repartees,  in  the  whole  discourse  with  the  knight 
and  lady,  the  greatest  part  of  which  I  have  been  forced  to  omit." 

The  noise  of  the  proclamation  made  Du  Vail  return  to  Paris ; 
but  he  came  back  in  a  short  time  for  want  of  money.  His 
reign  however  did  not  last  long  after  his  restoration.  He  made  an 
unlucky  attack,  not  upon  some  ill-bred  passengers,  but  upon  several  • 
bottles  of  wine,  and  was  taken  in  consequence  at  the  Hole-in-the- 
Wall,  in  Chandos-street.  His  life  was  interceded  for  in  vain :  he 
was  arraigned  and  committed  to  Newgate ;  and  executed  at  Tyburn 
in  the  27th  year  of  his  age ;  showers  of  tears  from  fair  eyes  bedewing 
his  fate,  both  while  alive  in  prison,  and  while  dead  at  the  fatal  tree. 

Du  Vall's  success  with  the  ladies  of  those  days,  whose  amatory  taste 
was  of  a  turn  more  extensive  than  enlarged,  seems  to  have  made 


104  THE  INDICATOR, 

some  very  well  dressed  English  gentlemen  jealous.  The  writer  of 
I)u  Vall's  life,  who  is  a  man  of  wit,  evidently  has  something  of  bit- 
terness in  his  railleries  upon  this  point  j  but  he  manages  them  very 
pleasantly  He  pretends  that  he  is  an  old  bachelor,  and  has  never 
been  able  to  make  his  way  with  his  fair  countrywomen,  on  at  count  of 
the  French  valets  that  have  stood  in  his  way.  He  says  he  had  two 
objects  in  writing  the  book.  "  One  is,  that  the  next  Frenchman 
that  is  hanged  may  not  cause  an  uproar  in  this  imperial  cityj  which 
I  doubt  not  but  I  have  effected. 

"  The  other  is  a  much  harder  task  :  To  set  my  countryman  on  even 
terms  with  the  French,  as  to  the  English  ladies'  affections.  If  I 
should  bring  this  about,.  I  should  esteem  myself  to  have  contributed 
much  to  the  good  of  this  kingdom. 

"  One  remedy  there  is,  which,  possibly,  may  conduce  something 
towards  it. 

■  ■  ''  I  have  heai'd,  that  there  is  a  new  invention  of  transfusing  the 
blood  of  one  animal  into  another,  and  thaf  it  has  been  experimented 
by  putting  the  blood  of  a  sheep  into  an  Englishman.  1  am  against 
mat  way  of  expei'iments ;  for,  should  we  make  all  Englishmen  sheep, 
we  should  soon  be  a  prey  to  the  loure. 

"  I  think  I  can  propose  the  making  that  experiment,  a  i"nore  ad- 
vantageous way.  I  would  have  all  gentlemen,  who  have  been  a  full 
year,  or  more,  out  of  France,  be  let  blood  weekly,  or  oftener,  if  they 
can  bear  it.  Mark  how  much  they  bleed ;  transfuse  so  much  French 
lacquey's  blood  into  them ;  replenish  these  last  out  of  the  English 
footmen,  for  it  is  no  matter  what  becomes  of  them.  Repeat  this 
opei'ation  toties  quoties,  and,  in  process  of  time,  you  will  find  this 
fevent :  Either  the  English  gentlemen  will  be  as  much  beloved  as  the 
French  lacqueys,  or  the  French  lacqueys  as  little  esteemed  as  the 
English  gentlemen." 

Butler  has  left  an  Ode,  sprihkled  with  his  usual  wit,  "  To  the 
Happy  Memory  of  the  Most  Renowned  Du  Val,"  who 

—  Like  a  pious  man,  soriie  years  before 
The  arrival  of  his  fatal  hour. 
Made  every  day  he  had  ^o  live 
To  his  last  minute  a  proparative  ;  , 

Taught  the  wild  Arabs  on  the  road 
To  act  in  a  more  ^eutle  mode  : 
TaJ<e  prizes  more  obligingly  from  those, 
<  Who  never  had  been  hr^djilous  ; 

And  bow  to  hang  in  a  more  graceful  fashion. 
Than  e'er  was  known  before  to  the  dull  English  nation. 

As  it  may  be  thought  proper  that  we  should  end  this  lawless  article 
with  a  good  moral,  we  will  give  it  two  or  three  sentences  from  Shaks- 
peare  worth  a  whole  vohime  of  sermons  against  thieving  .,  The  boy 
who  belongs  to  FalstaflF's  companions,  and  who  begins  to  see  through 
the  shallowness  of  their  cunniiig  and  way  of  life,  says  that  Bardolph 
stole  a  lute-case,  carried  it  twelve  miles,  and  sold  it  for  three 
halfpence.  

Orders  i-eceived  by  the  Newi^men;  by  the  Boolcselleri!,  and  by  the  Publisher,  Joseph  ACTiiBVARD, 
No.  19,  Catherine-.street,  Strand.— Price  2d.  . 

Pfintedby  C.  H.  Rkvnell,  No.  45,feroad-street,  Oioldcnisquare.         ' 


THE    INDICATOR. 


There  he  arriving  round  about  doth  flie. 
And  takes  survey  with  busie,  curious  eye ; 
Now  this,  now  that,  he  tasteth  tenderly. 

Spenser. 


No.  ;XIV.— WEDNESDAY,   JANUARY  12th,  1820. 


A  FEW  THOUGHTS  ON  SLEEP. 

This  is  an  article  for  the  reader  to  think  of,  when  he  or  she  is 
warm  in  bed,  a  little  before  he  goes  to  sleep,  the  clothes  at  his  ear, 
and  the  wind  moaning  in  some  distant  crevice. 

"  Blessings,"  exclaimed  Sancho,  "  on  him  that  first  invented 
sleep !  It  wraps  a  man  all  round  like  a  cloak."  It  is  a  delicious 
moment  certainly, — that  of  being  well  nestled  in  bed,  and  feeling 
that  you  shall  drop  gently  to  sleep.  The  good  is  to  come,  not  past : 
the  limbs  have  been  just  tired  enough,  to  render  the  remaining  in 
one  posture  delightful :  the  labour  of  the  day  is  done.  A  gentle 
failure  of  the  perceptions  comes  creeping  over  one  ■• — the  spirit  of 
consciousness  disengages  itself  more  and  more,  with  slow  and  hushing 
degrees,  like  a  mother  detaching  her  hand  from  that  of  her  sleeping 
child  j  — the  mind  seems  to  have  a  balmy  lid  closing  over  it,  like  the 
eye ; — 'tis  closing ; — 'tis  more  closing  ; — 'tis  closed.  The  mysterious 
spii'it  has  gone  to  take  it's  airy  rounds. 

It  is  said  that  sleep  is  best  before  midnight :  and  Nature  herself, 
with  her  darkness  and  chilling  dews,  informs  us  so.  There  is  another 
reason  for  going  to  bed  betimes  :  for  it  is  universally  acknowledged 
that  lying  late  in  the  morning  is  a  great  shortener  of  life.  At  least, 
it  is  never  found  in  company  with  longevity.  It  also  tends  to  make 
people  corpulent.  But  these  matters  belong  rather  to  the  subject  of 
early  rising,  than  of  sleep. 

Sleep  at  a  late  hour  in  the  morning,  is  not  half  so  pleasant  as  the 
more  timely  one.  It  is  sometimes  however  excusable,  especially  to  a, 
watchful  or  over- worked  head  j  neither  can  we  deny  the  seducing 
merits  of  "  t'  other  doze," — the  pleasing  wilfulness  of  nestling  in  a 
new  posture,  when  you  know  you  ought  to  be  up,  like  the  rest  of 
the  house.  But  then  you  cut  up  the  day,  and  your  sleep  the  next 
liight. 

In  the  course  of  the  day,  few  people  think  of  sleeping,  except  after 
dinner  ;  and  then  it  is  often  rather  a  hovering  and  nodding  on  the 
borders  of  sleep,  than  a  sleep  itself.  This  is  a  privilege,  allowable, 
we  think,  to  none  but  the  old,  or  the  sickly,  or  the  very  tired  and 
care-worn  ;  and  it  should  be  well  understood,  before  it  is  exercised 
in  company.    To  escape  into  slumber  from  an  argument  j  or  to  take 


106  THE  INDICATOR. 

it  as  an  aflair  of  course,  only  between  you  and  your  biliary  duct ;  or 
to  assent  with  involuntary  nods  to  all  that  you  have  just  been  disputing  5 
is  not  so  well :  much  less,  to  sit  nodding  and  tottering  beside  a  lady ; 
or  to  be  in  danger  of  dropping  your  head  into  the  fruit- plate  or  your 
host's  face ;  or  of  waking  up,  and  saying  "  Just  so"  to  the  bark  of  a 
dog,  or  "  Yes,  Madam"  to  the  black  at  your  elbow. 

Care-worn  people  however  might  refresh  themselves  oftener  with 
day-sleep  than  they  do ;  if  their  bodily  state  is  such  as  to  dispose 
them  to  it.  It  is  a  mistake  to  suppose  that  all  care  is  wakeful. 
People  sometimes  sleep,  as  well  as  wake,  by  reason  of  their  sorrow. 
The  difference  seems  to  depend  upon  the  nature  of  their  tempe- 
rament ;  though  in  the  most  excessive  cases,  sleep  is  perhaps  Nature's 
never-failing  relief,  as  swooning  is  upon  the  rack.  A  person 
with  jaundice  in-  his  blood  shall  lie  down  and  go  to  sleep  at 
noon-day,  when  another  of  a  different  complexion  shall  find  his  eyes 
as  uncloseable  as  a  statue's,  though  he  has  had  no  sleep  for  nights 
together.  Without  meaning  to  lesson  the  dignity  of  suffering,  which 
has  quite  enough  to  do  with  it's  waking  hours,  it  is  this  that  may 
often  account  for  the  profound  sleeps  enjoyed  the  night  before 
hazardous  battles,  executions,  and  other  demands  upon  an  over-excited 
spirit. 

..  The  most  complete  and  healthy  sleep  that  can  be  taken  in  the  day, 
is  in  summer-time,  out  in  a  field.  There  is  perhaps  no  solitary  sen- 
sation so  exquisite  as  that  of  slumbering  on  the  grass  or  hay,  shaded 
from  the  hot  sun  by  a  tree,  with  the  consciousness  of  a  fresh 
but  light  air  running  through  the  wide  atmosphere,  and  the  sky 
stretching  far  overhead  upon  all  sides.  Earth,  and  heaven,  and  a 
placid  humanity,  seem  to  have  the  creation  to  themselves.  There  is 
nothing  between  the  sluraberer,  and  the  naked  and  glad  innocence 
of  nature. 

Next  to  this,  but  at  a  long  interval,  the  most,  relishing  snatch  of 
slumber  out  of  bed,  is  the  one  which  a  tired  person  takes,  before  he 
retires  for  the  night,  while  lingering  in  his  sitting-room.  The  con- 
sciousness of  being  very  sleepy  and  of  having  the  power  to  go  to  bed 
immediately,  gives  great  zest  to  the  unwillingness  to  move.  Some- 
times he  sits  nodding  in  his  chair  j  but  the  sudden  and  leaden  jerks 
of  the  head  to  which  a  state  of  great  sleepiness  renders  him  liable, 
are  generally  too  painful  for  so  luxurious  a  moment  j  and  he  gets 
into  a  more  legitimate  posture,  sitting  sideways  with  his  head  on  the 
chair-back,  or  throwing  his  legs  up  at  once  on  another  chair,  and 
half  reclining.  It  is  curious  however  to  find,  how  long  an  inconve- 
nient posture  will  be  borne  for  the  sake  of  this  foretaste  of  repose. 
The  worst  of  it  is,  that  on  going  to  bed,  the  charm  sometimes  va- 
nishes ;  perhaps  from  the  colder  temperature  of  the  chamber ;  for  a 
fireside  is  a  great  opiate. 

,  Speaking  of  the  painful  positions  into  which  a  sleepy  lounger  will 
get  himself,  it  is  amusing  to  think  of  the  more  fantastic  attitudes 
that  so  often  take  place  in  bed.  If  we  could  add  any  thing  to  the 
numberless  things  that  have  been  said  about  sleep  by  the  poets,  it 
would  be  upon  this  point.     Sleep  never  shews  himself  a  greater 


THE  INDICATOR.  107 

leveller.  A  man  in  his  waking  moments  may  look  as  proud  and 
self-possessed  as  he  pleases.  He  may  walk  proudly,  he  may  sit 
proudly,  he  may  eat  his  dinner  proudly ;  he  may  shave  himself  with 
an  air  of  infinite  superiority ;  in  a  word,  he  may  shew  himself  grand 
and  absurd  upon  the  most  trifling  occasions.  But  Sleep  plays  the 
petrifying  magician.  He  arrests  the  proudest  lord  as  well  as  the 
humblest  clown  in  the  most  ridiculous  postures :  so  that  if  you  could 
dra^Y  a  grandee  from  his  bed  without  waking  him,  no  limb-twisting 
fool  in  a  pantomime  should  create  wilder  laughter.  The  toy  with 
the  string  between  it's  legs  is  hardly  a  posture-master  more  extra- 
vagant. Imagine  a  despot  lifted  up  to  the  gaze  of  his  valets,  with 
his  eyes  shut,  his  mouth  open,  his  left  hand  under  his  right  ear,  his 
other  twisted  and  hanging  helplessly  before  him  like  an  ideot's,  one 
knee  lifted  up,  and  the  other  leg  stretched  out,  or  both  knees  hud- 
dled up  together;   what  a  scarecrow  to  lodge  majestic  power  in ! 

But  Sleep  is  kindly,  even  in  his  tricks  ;  and  the  poets  have  treated 
him  with  proper  reverence.  According  to  the  ancient  mythologists, 
he  had  even  one  of  the  Graces  to  wife.  He  had  a  thousand  sons,  of 
whom  the  chief  were  Morpheus,  or  the  Shaper;  Icelos,  or  the  Likely; 
Phantasus,  the  Fancy  ;  and  Phobetor,  the  Terror.  His  dwelling  some 
writers  place  in  a  dull  and  darkling  part  of  the  earth;  others,  with 
greater  compliment,  in  heaven ;  and  others,  with  another  kind  of 
propriety,  by  the  sea-shore.  There  is  a  good  description  of  it  in 
Ovid;  but  in  these  abstracted  tasks  of  poetry,  the  moderns  outvie 
the  ancients  ;  and  there  is  nobody  who  has  built  his  bower  for  him 
so  finely  as  Spenser.  Archimago  in  the  first  book  of  the  Faery  Queen, 
(Canto  1,  St.  39.)  sends  a  little  spirit  down  to  Morpheus  to  fetch 
him  a  Dream. 

He,  making  speedy  way  through  spersed  ayre, 
And  through  the  world  of  waters,  wide  and  deepe. 
To  Morpheus'  house  doth  hastily  repaire. 
Amid  the  bowels  of  the  earth  full  steepe. 
And  low,  where  dawning  day  doth  never  peepe. 
His  dwelling  is.     There,  Tethys  his  wet  bed 
Doth  ever  wash  ;  and  Cynthia  still  doth  steepe 
In  silver  dew  his  ever-drouping  head, 
Whiles  sad  Night  over  him  her  mantle  black  doth  spred. 

And  more  to  lull  him  in  his  slumbler  soft 
A  trickling  streame  from  high  rocke  tumbling  downe. 
And  ever-dringling  rain  upon  the  loft. 
Mixed  with  a  murmuring  winde,  much  like  the  soune 
Of  swarming  bees,  did  cast  him  in  a  swoune. 
No  other  noise,  nor  people's  troublous  cryes, 
As  still  are  wont  to  annoy  the  walled  towne. 
Might  there  be  heard,  but  carelesse  Quiet  lyes. 
Wrapt  in  eternall  silence,  farre  from  enimyes. 

Chaucer  has  drawn  the  cave  of  the  same  god  with  greater  simpli- 
city ;  but  nothing  can  have  a  more  deep  and  sullen  effect  than  his 
cliffs  and  cold  running  waters.  It  seems  as  real  as  an  actual  solitude, 
or  some  quaint  old  picture  in  a  book  of  travels  in  Tartary.  He  is 
telling  the  story  of  Ceyx  and  Alcyone  in  the  poem  called  his  Dream. 
Juno  tells  a  messenger  to  go  to  Morpheus  and  "  bid  him  creep  into 


108  THE  INDICATOR. 

the  body"  of  the  drowned  king,  to  let  his  wife  know  the  fatal  event 
by  his  apparition. 

This  messenger  tooke  leave,  and  went 
Upon  his  way ;  and  never  he  stent 
Till  he  came  to  the  dark  valley. 
That  stant  betweenc  rockes  twey. 
There  never  yet  grew  corne,  ne  gras, 
Ne  tree,  ne  nought  that  aught  was. 
Beast  ne  man,  ne  naught  else  ; 
Save  that  there  were  a  few  wells 
Came  running  fro  the  the  cliffs  adowne. 
That  made  a  deadly  sleeping  soune. 
And  runnen  downe  right  by  a  cave, 
That  was  under  a  rocke  ygrave. 
Amid  the  valley,  wonder-deepe. 
There  these  goddis  lay  asleepe, 
Morpheus  and  Eclynipasteire, 
That  was  the  god  of  Sieepis  heire. 
That  slept  and  did  none  other  worke. 

Where  the  credentials  of  this  new  son  and  heir,  Eclympasteire,  are 
to  be  found,  we  know  not  j  but  he  acts  very  much,  it  must  be  al- 
lowed, like  an  heir  presumptive,  in  sleeping,  and  doing  "  none  other 
work." 

We  dare  not  trust  ourselves  with  many  quotations  upon  sleep  from 
the  poets ;  they  are  so  numerous  as  well  as  beautiful.  We  must 
content  ourselves  with  mentioning  that  our  two  most  favourite  pas- 
sages are  one  in  the  Philoctetes  of  Sophocles,  admirable  for  it's 
contrast  to  a  scene  of  terrible  agony,  which  it  closes*:  and  the  other 
the  following  address  in  Beaumont. and  Fletcher's  tragedy  of  Valen- 
tinian,  the  hero  of  which  is  also  a  sufferer  under  bodily  torment. 
He  is  in  a  chair,  slumbering  3  and  these  most  exquisite  lines  are 
gently  sung  with  music. 

Care-charming  Sleep,  thou  easer  of  all  woes. 
Brother  to  Death,  sweetly  thyself  dispose 
On  this  afflicted  prince.     Fall  like  a  cloud 
In  gentle  showers  :  give  nothing  that  is  loud 
Or  painful  to  his  slumbers  :  easy,  light, 
And  as  a  purling  stream;  thou  son  of,  Night, 
Pass  by  his  troubled  senses  :   sing  his  pain 
Like  hollow  murmuring  wind,  or  silver  rain : 
Into  this  prince,  gently,  oh  gently  slide ; 
And  kiss  him  into  slumbers,  like  a  bride. 

How  earnest  and  prayer-like  are  these  pauses !  How  lightly  sprinkled, 
and  yet  how  deeply  settling,  like  rain,  the  fancy !  How  quietj  affec- 
tionate, and  perfect  the  conclusion  ! 

Sleep  is  most  graceful  in  an  infant ;  soundest,  in  one  who  has  been 
tired  in  the  open  air;  completest,  to  the  seaman  after  a  hard  voyage  5 
most  welcome,  to  the  mind  haunted  with  one  idea ;  mo^t  touching  to 
look  at,  in  the  parent  that  has  wept  3  lightest,  in  the  playful  child  3 
proudest,  in  the  bride  adored. 

*  We  do  not  translate  it  here,  as  we  intend  to  present  the  reader  with  the 
whole  scene  in  an  article  upon  Philoctetes. 


THE  INDICATOR.  109 


THE   FAIR  REVENGE. 


The  elements  of  this  story  are  to  be  found  in  the  old  poetn  called 
Albion's  England,  to  which  we  referred  in  the  article  on  Charles 
Brandon  and  Mary  Queen  of  France, 

Aganippus,  king  of  Argos,  dying  without  heirs  male,  bequeathed 
his  throne  to  his  only  daughter,  the  beautiful  and  beloved  Daphles. 
This  female  succession  was  displeasing  to  a  nobleman  who  held  large 
possessions  on  the  frontiers ;  and  he  came  for  the  first  time  towards 
the  court,  not  to  pay  his  respects  to  the  new  queen,  but  to  give  her 
battle.  Doracles  (for  that  was  his  name)  was  not  much  known  by 
the  people.  He  had  distinguished  himself  for  as  jealous  an  indepen- 
dence as  a  subject  could  well  assume ;  and  though  he  had  been  of 
use  in  repelling  invasion  during  the  latter  years  of  the  king,  had 
never  made  his  appearance  to  receive  his  master's  thanks  personally. 
A  correspondence  however  was  understood  to  have  gone  on  between 
him  and  several  noblemen  about  the  court  3  and  there  were  those, 
who  in  spite  of  his  inattention  to  popularity,  suspected  that  it  would 
go  hard  with  the  young  queen,  when  the  two  armies  came  face  to  face. 

But  neither  these  subtle  statesmen,  nor  the  ambitious  young  sol- 
dier Doracles,  were  aware  of  the  effects  to  be  produced  by  a  strong 
personal  attachment.  The  young  queen,  amiable  as  she  was  beau- 
tiful, had  involuntarily  baffled  his  expectations  from  her  courtiers,  by 
exciting  in  the  minds  of  some  a  real  disinterested  regard,  while  others 
nourished  a  hope  of  sharing  her  throne  instead.  At  least,  they  specu- 
lated upon  becoming,  each  the  favourite  minister ;  and  held  it  a  better 
thing  to  reign  under  that  title  and  a  charming  mistress,  than  be  the 
servants  of  a  master,  wilful  and  domineering.  By  the  people  she 
was  adored  3  and  when  she  came  riding  out  of  her  palace,  on  the 
morning  of  the  fight,  with  an  unaccustomed  spear  standing  up  in  it's 
rest  by  her  side,  her  diademed  hair  flowing  a  little  off  into  the  wind, 
her  face  paler  than  usual,  but  still  tinted  with  it's  roses,  and  a  look 
in  which  confidence  in  the  love  of  her  subjects,  and  tenderness  for 
the  wounds  they  Avere  going  to  encounter,  seemed  to  contend  for 
the  expression, — ^the  shout  which  they  sent  up  would  have  told  a 
stouter  heart  than  a  traitor's,  that  the  royal  charmer  was  secure. 

The  queen,  during  the  conflict,  remained  in  a  tent  upon  an  emi- 
nence, to  which  the  younger  leaders  vied  who  should  best  spur  up 
their  smoking  horses,  to  bring  her  good  news  from  time  to  time. 
The  battle  was  short  and  bloody.  Doracles  soon  found  that  he  had 
miscalculated  his  point  j  and  all  his  skiU  and  resolution  could  not  set 
the  error  to  rights.  It  was  allowed,  that  if  either  courage  or  military 
talent  could  entitle  him  to  the  throne,  he  would  have  had  a  right  to 
it  5  but  the  popularity  of  Daphles  supplied  her  cause  with  all  the 
ardour,  which  a  lax  state  of  subjection  on  the  part  of  the  more 
powerful  nobles  might  have  denied  it.  When  her  troops  charged,  or 
made  any  other  voluntary  movement,  they  put  all  their  hearts  into 
their  blows ;  and  when  they  were  compelled  to  await  the  enemy,  they 
stood  as  inflexible  as  walls  of  iron.     It  was  like  hammering  upon 


no  THE  INDICATOR. 

metal  statuary ;  or  staking  their  fated  horses  upon  spears  rivetted  in 
stone.  Doracles  was  taken  prisoner.  The  queen,  re-issuing  from 
her  tent,  crowned  with  laurel,  came  riding  down  the  eminence,  and 
remained  at  the  foot  with  her  generals,  while  the  prisoners  were  taken 
by.  Her  pale  face  kept  as  royal  a  countenance  of  composed  pity  as  she 
could  manage,  while  the  commoner  rebels  passed  along,  aching  with 
their  wounded  arms  fastened  behind,  and  shaking  back  their  bloody 
and  blinding  locks  for  want  of  a  hand  to  part  them.  But  the  blood 
mounted  to  her  cheeks,  when  the  proud  and  handsome  Doracles, 
whom  she  now  saw  for  the  first  time,  blushed  deeply  as  he  cast  a 
glance  at  his  female  conqueror,  and  then  stepped  haughtily  along, 
handling  his  gilded  chains  as  if  they  were  an  indifferent  ornament. 
*'  I  have  conquered  him,"  thought  she  :  "  it  is  a  heavy  blow  to  so 
proud  a  head ;  and  as  he  looks  not  unamiable,  it  might  be  politic  as 
well  as  courteous  and  kind  in  me  to  turn  his  submission  into  a  more 
willing  one."  Alas  !  pity  was  helping  admiration  to  a  kinder  set  of 
offices,  than  the  generous-hearted  queen  suspected.  The  captive 
went  to  his  prison,  a  conqueror  after  all  3  for  Daphles-loved  him. 

The  second  night,  after  having  exhibited  in  her  manners  a  strange 
mixture  of  joy  and  seriousness,  and  signified  to  her  counsellors  her  inten- 
tion of  setting  the  prisoner.free,  she  released  him  with  her  own  hands. 
Many  a  step  did  she  hesitate  as  she  went  down  the  stairs  5  and  when 
she  came  to  the  door,  she  shed  a  full,  but  soft,  and  as  it  seemed  to 
her  a  wilful  and  refreshing  flood  of  tears,  humbling  herself  for  her 
approaching  task.  When  she  had  entered,  she  blushed  deeply,  and 
then  turning  as  pale,  stood  for  a  minute  silent  and  without  motion, 
She  then  said,  "  Thy  queen,  Doracles,  has  come  to  shew  thee  how 
kindly  she  can  treat  a  great  and  gallant  subject,  who  did  not  know 
her  3 "  and  with  these  words,  and  almost  before  she  was  aware,  the 
prisoner  was  released,  and  preparing  to  go.  He  appeared  surprised, 
but  not  off  his  guard,  nor  in  any  temper  to  be  over-grateful. 
*^'Name,"  said  he,  ''O  queen,  the  conditions  on  "tvhich  1  depart,  and 
they  will  be  faithfully  kept."  Daphles  moved  her  lips,  but  they  spoke 
not.  She  waved  her  head  and  hand  with  a  deadly  smile,  as  if  free- 
ing him  from  all  conditions ;  and  he  was  turning  to  go,  when  she 
fell  senseless  on  the  floor.  The  haughty  warrior  raised  her  with  more 
impatience  than  goodwill.  He  could  guess  at  love  in  a  woman; 
but  he  had  but  a  mean  opinion  both  of  it  and  her  sex ;  and  the 
deadly  struggle  in  the  heart  of  Daphles  did  not  help  him  to  distinguish 
the  romantic  passion,  which  had  induced  her  to  put  all  her  past  and 
virgin  notions  of  love  into  his  person,  from  the  commonest  liking 
that  inight  flatter  his  soldierly  vanity.  .  : 

The  queen,  on  awaking  from  her  swoon,  found  herself  compelled, 
in  very  justice  to  the  intensity  of  a  true  passion,  to  explain  how  pity 
had  brought  it  upon  her.  "  I  might  ask  it,"  said  she,  "  Doracles, 
in  return;"  and  here  she  resumed  something  of  her  queen-like  dig- 
nity J  "  but  I  feel  that  my  modesty  will  be  sufficiently  saved  by  the 
name  of  your  wife :  and  a  substantial  throne,  with  a  return  th^at 
shall  nothing  perplex  or,  interfere  with  thee,  I  do  now  accordingly^ 


THE  INDICATOR.  Ul 

offer  theeji  not  as  the  coHditioii  of  thy  freedom,  but  as  a  diversion  of 
men's  eyes  and  thoughts  from  what  they  will  think  ill  in  me,  if  they 
find  me  rejected."  And  in  getting  out  that  hard  word,  her  voice 
£aultered  a  little,  and  hfer  eyes  filled  with  tears. 

Doracles,  with  thfe  best  grace  his  lately  defeated  spirit  could  as- 
sume, spoke  in  willing  terms  of  accepting  her  ofier.  They  left  the 
prison ;  and  his  full  pardon  having  been  proclaimed,  the  courtiers, 
with  feasts  and  entertainments,  vied  who  should  seem  best  to  approve 
their  mistress's  choice ;  for  so  they  were  quick  to  understand  it. 
The  late  captive,  who  was  really  as  graceful  and  accomplished  as  a 
proud  spirit  would  let  him  be,  received  and  returned  all  their  atten- 
tion in  princely  sort  j  and  Daphles  was  beginning  to  hope  that  he 
might  turn  a  glad  eye  upon  her  some  day,  when  news  was  brought 
her  that  he  had  gone  from  court,  nobody  knew  whither.  The  next 
intelligence  was  too  certain.  He  had  passed  the  frontiers,  and  was 
leaguing  with  her  enemies  for  another  struggle. 

From  that  day,  gladness,  though  not  kindness,  went  out  of  the  face 
ef  Daphles.  She  wrote  him  a  letter,  without  a  word  of  reproach  in 
it,  enough  to  bring  back  the  remotest  heart  that  had  the  least  spark 
of  sympathy  j  but  he  only  answered  it  in  a  spirit,  which  shewed  that 
he  regarded  •  the  deepest  love  but  as  a  wanton  trifle.  That  letter 
touched  her  kind  wits.  She  had  had  a  paper  drawn  up,  leaving  him 
her  throne  in  case  she  should  die ;  but  some  of  her  ministers,  avail- 
ing themselves  of  her  enfeebled  spirit,  had  summoned  a  meeting  of 
the  nobles,  at  which  she  was  to  preside  in  the  dress  she  wore  on  the 
day  of  victory  j  the  sight  of  which,  it  was  thought,  with  the  argu- 
ments which  they  meant  to  use,  would  prevail  upon  the  assembly 
to  urge  her  to  a  revocation  of  the  bequest.  Her  women  dressed  her, 
while  she  was  almost  unconscious  of  what  they  were  doing,  for  she 
had  now  began  to  fade  quickly,  body  as  well  as  mind.  They  put  on 
her  the  white  garments  edged  with  silver  waves,  in  remembrance  of 
the  stream  of  Inachus,  the  founder  of  the  Argive  monarchy;  the 
spear  was  brought  out,  to  be  stuck  by  the  side  of  the  throne,  instead 
of  the  sceptre  3  and  their  hands  prepared  to  put  the  same  laurel  on  her 
head,  which  bound  it's  healthy  white  temples,  when  she  sat  on  horse- 
back, and  saw  the  prisoner  go  by.  But  at  sight  of  it's  twisted  and 
withered  green,  she  took  it  in  her  hand ;  and  looking  about  her  in 
her  chair  with  an  air  of  momentary  recollection,  began  picking  it, 
and  letting  the  leaves  fall  upon  the  floor.  She  went  on  thus,  leaf 
after  leaf,  looking  vacantly  downwards  ;  and  when  she  had  stripped 
thie  circle  half  round,  she  leaned  her  cheek  against  the  side  of  heF, 
sick  chair  j  and  shutting  her  eyes  quietly,  so  died. 

The  envoys  from  Argos  went  to  the  court  of  Calydon,  where  Do- 
racles then  was  j  and  bringing  him  the  diadem  upon  a  black  cushion, 
informed  him  at  once  of  the  death  of  the  queen,  and  her  nomination 
of  him  to  the  throne.  He  shewed  little  more  than  a  ceremonious 
gravity  at  the  former  news ;  but  could  ill  contain  his  joy  at  the  latter, 
and  set  off  instantly  to  take  possession.  Among  the  other  nobles 
who  feasted  him,  was  one  who,  having  been  the  particular  companion 
of  the  late  king,  had  become  like  a  second  father  to  his  unhappy 


112  THE  INDICATOR. 

daughter.  The  new  prince  observing  the  melancholy  which  he 
scarcely  affected  to  repress,  and  seeing  him  look  np  occasionally  at  a  pic- 
ture which  had  a  veil  over  it,  asked  him  what  the  picture  was  that  seem- 
ed to  disturb  him  so,  and  why  it  was  veiled.  "  If  it  be  the  portrait  of 
the  late  king,"  saidDoracles,"  pray  think  me  worthy  of  doing  honour 
to  it,  for  he  was  a  noble  prince.  Unveil  it,  pray.  I  insist  upon  it. 
What  ?  Am  I  not  worthy  to  look  upon  my  predecessors,  Phorbas?" 
And  at  these  words,  he  frowned  impatiently.  Phorbas,  with  a  trem- 
bling hand,  but  not  for  want  of  courage,  withdrew  the  black  cover- 
ing 5  and  the  portrait  of  Daphles,  in  all  her  youth  and  beauty,  flashed 
upon  the  eyes  of  Doracles.  It  was  not  a  melancholy  face.  It  was 
drawn  before  misfortune  had  touched  it,  and  sparkled  with  a  bloom- 
ing beauty,  in  which  animal  spirits  and  good-nature  contended  for 
predominance.  Doracles  paused,  and  seemed  struck.  "  The  pos- 
sessor of  that  face,"  said  he,  inquiringly,  ''^  could  never  have  been 
so  sorrowful,  as  I  have  heard?" — ''Pardon  me,  Sir,"  answered  Phor- 
bas ;  "  I  was  as  another  father  to  her,  and  knew  all."  "  It  cannot  be," 
returned  the  prince.  The  old  man  begged  his  other  guests  to  with- 
draw a  while,  and  then  told  Doracles  how  many  fond  and  despairing 
things  the  queen  had  said  of  him,  both  before  her  wits  began  to  fail, 
and  after.  "  Her  wits  to  fail?"  murmured  the  king :  "  I  have  known 
what  it  is  to  feel  almost  a  mad  impatience  of  the  will ;  but  I  knew 
not  that  these  —  gentle  creatures,  wonien,  could  so  feel  for  such  a 
trifle."  Phorbas  brought  out  the  laurel-crown,  and  told  him  how 
it  was  that  the  half  of  it  became  bare.  The  impatient  blood  of  Do- 
racles mounted,  but  not  in  anger,  to  his  face ;  and  breaking  Up  the 
party,  he  requested  that  the  picture  might  be  removed  to  his  own 
chamber,  promising  to  return  it. 

A  whole  year  however  did  he  keep  it ;  and  as  he  had  no  foreign 
enemies  to  occupy  his  time,  nor  was  disposed  to  enter  into  the  com- 
toon  sports  of  peace,  it  was  understood  that  he  spent  the  greatest 
part  of  his  time,  when  he  was  not  in  council,  in  the  room  where  the 
picture  hung.  In  truth,  the  image  of  the  once  smiling  Daphles 
haunted  him  wherever  he  went ;  and  to  ease  himself  of  the 
yearning  of  wishing  her  alive  again  and  seeing  her  face,  he  was  in 
the  habit  of  being  with  it  as  much  as  possible.  His  self-will  turned 
upon  him,  even  in  that  gentle  shape.  Millions  of  times  did  he  wish 
back  the  loving  author  of  his  fortunes,  whom  he  had  treated  with  so 
clownish  an  ingratitude;  and  millions  of  ti  .\  j  did  the  sense  of  the 
impotence  of  his  wish  run  up  in  red  hurry  to  nis  cheeks,  and  help  to 
pull  them  into  a  gaunt  melancholy.  But  this  is  not  a  repaying 
sorrow  to  dwell  upon.  He  was  one  day,  after  being  in  vain  expected 
at  council,  found  lying  madly  on  tUt  floor  of  the  room,  dead.'  He 
had  torn  the  portrait  from  the  wall.  His  dagger  was  in  his  heart ; 
and  his  cheek  lay  upon  that  blooming  and  smiling  face,  which  had  it 
been  living,  would  never  have  looked  so  at  being  revenged. 


received  by  the  Newsmen,  by  the  Bookseller?,  and  by  the  Pablisher,  Joseph  Applbvabd, 
No.  19,  Catherine-street,  Strand.— Price  2d. 
Printed  by  C.  H.  Keyneli.,  No. 45,  Broad-street,  Goldea-square,  London. 


THE    INDICATOR. 

There  he  arriving  round  about  doth  flie. 
And  takes  survey  with  busie,  curious  eye : 
Now  this,  now  that,  he  tasteth  tenderly. 

Spenser. 


No.  XV.— WEDNESDAY,  JANUARY  19th,  1820. 


SPIRIT  OF  THE  ANCIENT  MYTHOLOGY. 

Fkom  having  a  different  creed  of  our  own,  and  always  encountering 
the  heathen  mythology  in  a  poetical  and  fabulous  shape,  we  are  apt 
to  have  a  false  idea  of  the  religious  feeling  of  the  ancients. ~-  We  are 
in  the  habit  of  supposing,  whatever  we  allow  when  we  come  to 
reason  upon  the  point,  that  they  regarded  their  fables  in  the  same 
poetical  light  as  ourselves ;  that  they  could  not  possibly  put  faith  in 
Jupiter,  Neptune,  and  Pluto  j  in  the  sacrifice  of  innocent  turtle 
doves,  the  libation  of  wine,  and  the  notions  about  Tartarus  and 
Ixiori. 

Undoubtedly  there  were  multitudes  of  free  thinkers  in  the  ancient 
world.  Most  of  the  Greek  poets  and  philosophers  appear  to  have 
differed  with  the  literal  notions  of  the  many.^  A  system  of  refined 
theism  is  understood  to  have  been  taught  to  the  initiated  in  the 
celebrated  Mysteries.  The  doctrines  of  Epicurus  were  so  prevalerit 
in  the  most  intellectual  age  of  Rome,  that  Lucretius  wrote  a  poem 
upon  them,  in  which  he  treats  their  founder  as  a  divinity  j  and  Virgil, 
in  a  well-known  passage  of  the  Georgics,  "  Felix  qui  potuit"  &e. 
exalts  either  Epicurus  or  Lucretius  as  a  blessed  being,  who  put  hell 
and  terror  under  his  feet.  A  sickly  temperament  appears  to  have 
made  him  wish,  rather  than  be  able,  to  carry  his  own  scepticism  so 
far:  yet  he  insinuates  his  disbelief  in  Tartarus  in  the  sixth  book  of 
his  epic  poem,  where  ^neas  and  the  Sybil,  after  the  description  of 
the  lower  world,  go  ou<.  through  the  ivory  gate,  which  was  the  pas- 
sage of  false  visions. f  C-icsar,  according  to  a  speech  of  his  in  Sallust, 
derided  the  same  notions  in  open  Senate  y  and  Cicero,  in  other  parts 
of  his  writings,  as  well  as  in  a  public  pleading,  speaks  of  them  as. 
fables  and  impertinence, — ''  ineptiis  ac  fabulis." 

*  It  is  remarkable  that  .iEschylus  and  Euripides,  the  two  'dramatists  whose 
faith  in  the  national  religion  was  most  doubted,  are  said  to  have  met  with  strange 
and  violent  deaths. — The  latter  was  torn  to  pieces  by  dogs,  and  the  former  killed 
by  a  tortoise  which  an  eagle  let  fall  upon  his  bald  head  in  nrntdhe  for  a  stmie. 
These  exits^  from  the  scene  look  very  like  the  retributive  deatli-beds  wliieh  the 
bigots  of  all  religions  are  so  fond  of  ascribing  to  one  another. 

f  Did  Dante  forget  this,  when  he  took  Virgil  for  his  guide  through  the  Inferno ' 


114  THE  INDICATOR. 

But  however  this  plain-dealing  may  look  on  the  part  of  the  men 
of  letters,  there  is  reason  to  believe  that  even  in  those  times,  the 
people  in  general  were  strong  upon  points  of  faith.  The  extension 
of  the  Greek  philosophy  may  have  insensibly  rendered  them  familiar 
with  latitudes  of  interpretation  on  the  part  of  others.  They  would 
not  think  it  impious  in  Cicero  and  Cato  to  have  notions  of  the 
Supreme  Being  more  consistent  with  the  elevation  of  their  minds. 
But  for  themselves,  they  adhered,  from  habit,  to  the  literal  creed  of 
their  ancestors,  as  the  Greek  populace  had  done  before  them.  The 
jealous  enemies  of  Socrates  contrived  to  have  him  put  to  death  on  a 
charge  of  irreverence  fpr  the  gods.  4  frolic  of  the  libertine  Alcibiades, 
which  to  say  the  least  of  it,  was  in  very  bad  taste, — the  defacing  the 
statues  of  Mercury, — was  followed  with  important  consequences. 
The  history  of  Socrates  had  the  effect,  in  after  times,  at  least  in  the 
ancient  world,,  of  saving  philosophical  speculators  from  the  vindictive 
egotism  of  opinion.  But  even  in  the  days  of  Augustus,  Ovid  wij^o^e  a 
popular  work  full  of  mythological  fables  ;  and  Virgil  himself,  whose 
creed  perhaps  only  rejected  what  was  unkindly,  gave  the  hero  o^  his 
intended  popular  epic,  the  particular  appellation  of  Pious.  Th^t 
Augustus  should  pique  himself  on  the  same  attribute,  proves  little  ; 
for  he  was  a  cold-blooded  man  of  the  wprl^,  a,nd  could  play  the 
hypocrite  for  the  worst  and  most  despotic  purposes.  Did  he  no.w  a^d 
tMn  lecture  his  poetical  friends  upon  this  point,  respecting  their  awn 
appearances  with  the  world  ?  There  is  a  curious  ode  of  Horace 
(Book  1.  Od.  34.)  in  which  he  says  that  h,e  finds  himself  cpjjopelled 
to  give  up  his  sceptical  notions,  and  to  attend  more  to  public  worship^ 
because  it  had  thundered  one  day  when,  the  sky  was  cl,oudless.  Th^ 
critics  are  divided  in  their  opinion  of  his  object  in  this  ode.  Som^ 
think  him  in  earnest,  others  in  jest.  It  is  the  only  thing  of  the  sort 
in  his  works ;  and  is,  at  all  events,  of  ari  eqiiiyocal  character  thjat 
would  serve  his  purpose  on  either  side  of  th,e  question. 

The  opinions  of  the  ancients  upon  religion  may  be  diyid^d  injtp 
three  genera,!  classes.  The  great  multitude  believed  any  thing ;  the 
very  few  disbelieved  every  thing ,  the  philo3ophers  and  poets  enter- 
tained a  refined  natural  religion,  which  while  it  pronounced  uppja 
Jdothing,  rejected  what  was  evidently  unworthy  of  the  spirit;  pf  the 
^creation,  and  regarded  the  popular  deities,  as  personifications  of  it's 
various  workings.  All  these  classes  hjad  their  extravaganceSj,  in 
proportipn  to  their  ignorance,  or  viciousness,  pr  m.etaphysical,  pifer- 
plexity.  The  multitude,  whpse  notions  were  founded  on  ignoraj;ice, 
habit,  and  fear,  admitted  many  absurd  and  some  cruel  imaginatipns. 
The  mere  man  of  the  world  measured  every  thing  by  his  own  vain 
and  petty  standard,  and  thought  the  whole  goods  of  the  universe  a 
scraipble  for  the  cunning  and  hypocritical.  The  over-refining 
fpUpwers  of  Platp,  endeavpuring  tp  pierce  intp  the  nature  of  things 
by  the  mere  effort  of  the  will,  arrived  at  conclusions  visible  to  none 
but  their  own  yearning  and  impatient  eyes ;  and  lost  themselyef  iiji 
the  ethereal  doginatisms  of  Plotinus  and  Porphyry. 

I^he  greatest  pleasure  arising  tp  a  ];no(Iern  imaginatipf^  fropn  the 


Tiife  JNDIGATOR.  il5 

ancient  rtiytliblogy,  is  in  a  iningled  sense  of  the  ol(J  popular  belii&f 
ahd  of  the  pHilbsophical  refinenlents  upon  it.  We  take  Apollo,  and 
Mercury,  £tnd  Venus,  as  shapes  that  existed  in  popular  credulity,  as 
the  greater  fairies  bf  the  ancient  world ;  and  we  regard  them,  at  the 
same  time,  als  personifications  of  all  that  is  beautiful  and  genial  in  the 
fdrtn^  and  tendencies  of  creation.  But  the  result,  coming  as  it  does 
too  thtough  avenues  of  beautiful  poetry,  both  ancient  and  modern,  is 
so  ehtii-ely  chearful,  that  we  are  apt  to  think  it  must  have  wanted 
gravity  to  more  believing  eyes.  We  fancy  that  the  old  world  saw 
nothing  in-  religion  but  lively  and  graceful  shapes,  as  remote  from 
the  more  obscure  and  awful  hintings  of  the  world  unknown,  as  pby- 
sics  appear  to  be  from  the  metaphysical; — as  the  eye  of  a  beai^tiful 
woman  is  from  tlie  inward  speculations  of  a  Brahmin  3  or  a  lily  at 
noon-day  from  the  wide  obscurity  of  night-time. 

This  supposition  appears  to  be  carried  a  great  deal  too  far.  We 
will  not  enquire  in  this  place,  how  far  the  mass  of  mankind,  when 
these  shapes  vi'ere  done  away,  did  or  did  not  escape  from  a  despotic 
anthropomorphitism ;  nor  how  far  they  were  driven  by  the  vaguer 
fears,  and  thfe  opening  of  a  more  visible  eternity,  into  avoiding  the 
whole  subject,  rather  than  courting  it;  nor  how  it  is,  that  the  nobler 
practical  religion  which  was  afforded  them,  has  been  unable  to  bring 
back  their  frightened  theology  from  the  angry  and  avaricious  pursuits 
into  which  they  fled  for  refuge.  But  setting  aside  the  portion  of  ter- 
ror, of  which  heathenism  partook  in  common  with  all  faiths  originat- 
ing in  uncultivated  times,  the  ordinary  run  of  pagans  were  perhaps 
more  impressed  with  a  sense  of  the  invisible  world,  in  consequence 
of  the  very  visions  presented  to  their  imagination,  than  the  same 
description  of  men  under  a  more  shadowy  system.  There  is  the  same 
ditference  between  the  two  things,  as  between  a  populace  believing  in 
fairies,  and  a  pOpulace  not  believing.  The  latter  is  in  the  high  road 
to  something  better,  if  not  drawn  aside  into  new  terrors  on  the  one 
hand,  or  mere  worldliness  on  the  other.  But  the  former  is  led  to 
look  out  of  the  mere  worldly  common-places  about  it,  twenty  times 
to  the  other's  once.  It  has  a  sense  of  a  supernatural  state  of  things, 
however  gross.  It  has  a  link  with  another  world,  from  which  some- 
thirik  like  gravity  is  sure  to  strike  into  the  most  chearful  heart. 
Every  forest,  to  the  mind's  eye  of  a  Greek,  was  haunted  with  superica*^ 
intelligences.  Every  stream  had  it's  presiding  nymph,  who  was 
thanked  for  the  dratight  of  water.  Every  house  had  it's  protecting 
gods,  which  had  blessed  the  inmate's  ancestors;  and  which  would 
bless  him  also,  if  he  cultivated  the  social  affections :  for  the  same 
word  which  expressed  piety  towards  the  Gods,  expressed  love  to- 
wards relations  and  friends.  If  in  all  this  there  was  nothing  but  the 
worship  of  a  more  graceful  humanity,  there  may  be  worships  much 
worse  as  well  as  much  better.  And  the  divinest  spirit  that  ever 
appeared  on  earth  has  told  us,  that  the  eixtension  of  human  sympathy 
embraces  all  that  is'  required  of  us,  either  to  do  or  to  foresee. 

Imagine  the  feelings  with  which  an  ancient  believer  must  have 
gone  by  the  oracular  oaks  of  Dodona^  or  the  calm  groves  of  the 


116  THE  INDICATOR. 

Eumenides,  or  the  fountain  where  Proserpine  vanished  underground 
with  Pluto ;  or  the  Great  Temple  of  the  Mysteries  at  Eleusis ;  or  the 
laurelled  mountain  Parnassus,  on  the  side  of  which  was  the  temple 
of  Delphi,  where  Apollo  was  supposed  to  be  present  in  person.  Ima- 
gine Plutarch,  a  devout  and  yet  a  liberal  believer,  wjien  he  went  to 
study  theology  and  philosophy  at  Delphi :  with  what  feelings  must 
he  not  have  passed  along  the  woody  paths  of  the  hill,  approaching 
nearer  every  instant  to  the  presence  of  the  divinity,  and  not  sure  that 
a  glance  of  light  through  the  trees  was  not  the  lustre  of  the  god 
himself  going  by.  This  is  mere  poetry  to  us,  and  very  fine  it  is  j  but 
to  -him  it  was  poetry,  and  religion,  and  beauty,  and  gravity,  and 
hushing  awe,  and  a  path  as  from  one  world  to  another. 

With  similar  feelings  he  would  cross  the  ocean,  an  element  that 
naturally  detaches  the  mind  from  earth,  and  which  the  ancients 
regarded  as  especially  doing  so.  He  had  been  in  the  Carpathian  sea^ 
the  favourite  haunt  of  Proteus,  who  was  supposed  to  be  gifted  above 
every  other  deity  with  a  knowledge  of  the  causes  of  things.  Towards 
evening,  when  the  winds  were  rising,  and  the  sailors  had  made  their 
vows  to  Neptune,  he  would  think  of  the  old  ''  shepherd  of  the  seas, 
of  yore,"  and  believe  it  possible  that  he  might  become  visible  to  his 
eyesight,  driving  through  the  darkling  waters,  and  turning  the 
sacred  wildness  of  his  face  towards  the  blessed  ship. 

In  all  this,  there  is  a  deeper  sense  of  another  world,  than  in  the 
habit  of  contenting  oneself  with  a  few  vague  terms  and  embodying 
nothing  but  Mammon.  There  is  a  deeper  sense  of  another  world, 
precisely  because  there  is  a  deeper  sense  of  the  present  j  of  it's 
varieties,  it's  benignities,  it's  mystery.  It  was  a  strong  sense  of  this, 
which  made  a  living  poet,  who  is  accounted  very  orthodox  in  his 
religious  opinions,  give  vent,  in  that  fine  sonnet,  to  his  impatience  at 
seeing  the  beautiful  planet  we  live  upon,  with  all  it's  starry  wonders 
about  it,  so  little  thought  of,  compared  with  what  is  ridiculously 
called  the  world.  He  seems  to  have  dreaded  the  symptom,  as  an 
evidence  of  materialism,  and  of  the  planets  being  dry  self-existing 
things,  peopled  with  mere  successive  mortalities,  and  unconnected 
with  any  superintendance  or  consciousness  in  the  universe  about  them. 
It  is  abhorrent  from  all  we  think  and  feel,  that  they  should  be  so  : 
and  yet  Love  might  make  heavens  of  them,  if  they  were. 

"  The  world  is  too  much  with  us.    Late  and  soon. 

Getting  and  spending,  we  lay  waste  our  powers : 

Little  we  see  in  Nature  that  is  ours  : 

We  have  given  our  hearts  away,  a  sordid  boon  I 

This  Sea  that  bares  her  bosom  to  the  moon  ; 

The  Winds  that  will  be  howling  at  all  hours. 

And  are  npgathered  now  like  sleeping  flowers; 

For  this,  for  every  thing,  we  are  out  of  tune  ; 

It  moves  us  not. — Great  God !  I'd  rather  be 

A  Pagan  suckled  in  a  creed  outworn, 

So  might  I,  standing  on  tliis  pleasant  lea. 

Have  glimpses  tViat  would  make  me  less  forlorn  ; 

Have  sight  of  Proteus  coming  from  the  sea  ; 

Or  hear  old  Triton  blow  his  wreathed  born." 


THE  INDICATOR.  117 


GETTING  UP  ON  COLD  MORNINGS. 

An  Italian  author, — Giulio  Cordara,  a  Jesuit, — ^has  written  a  poem 
upon  Insects,  which  he  begins  by  insisting,  that  those  troublesome 
and  abominable  little  animals  were  created  for  our  annoyance,  and 
that  they  were  certainly  not  inhabitants  of  Paradise,  We  of  the 
North  may  dispute  this  piece  of  theology ;  but  on  the  other  hand,  it 
is  as  clear  as  the  snow  on  the  house-tops,  that  Adam  was  not  under 
the  necessity  of  shaving  •■,  and  that  when  Eve  walked  out  of  her  deli- 
cious bower,  she  did  not  step  upon  ice  three  inches  Ihick. 

Some  people  say  it  is  a  very  easy  thing  to  get  up  of  a  cold  morn- 
ing. You  have  only,  they  tell  you,  to  take  the  resolution ;  and  the 
thing  is  done.  This  may  be  very  true ;  just  as  a  boy  at  school  has 
only  to  take  a  flogging,  and  the  thing  is  over.  But  we  have  not  at 
all  made  up  our  minds  upon  it ;  and  we  find  it  a  very  pleasant  exer- 
cise to  discuss  the  matter,  candidly,  before  we  get  up.  This  at  least 
is  not  idling,  though  it  may  be  lying.  It  affords  an  excellent  answer 
to  those,  who  ask  how  lying  in  bed  can  be  indulged  in  by  a  reasoning 
being, — a  rational  creature.  How  ?  Why  with  the  argument  calmly 
at  work  in  one's  head,  and  the  clothes  over  one's  shoulder.  Oh — it 
is  a  fine  way  of  spending  a  sensible,  impartial  half-hour. 

If  these  people  would  be  more  charitable,  they  would  get  on  with 
their  argument  better.  But  they  are  apt  to  reason  so  ill,  and  to 
assert  so  dogmatically,  that  one  could  wish  to  have  them  stand  round 
one's  bed  of  a  bitter  morning,  and  lie  before  their  faces.  They  ought 
to  hear  both  sides  of  the  bed,  the  inside  and  out.  If  they  cannot  en- 
tertain themselves  with  their  own  thoughts  for  half  an  hour  or  so,  it 
is  not  the  fault  of  those  who  can.  If  their  will  is  never  pulled  aside 
by  the  enticing  arms  of  imagination,  so  much  the  luckier  for  the 
stage-coachman. 

Candid  inquirers  into  one's  decumbency,  besides  the  greater  or 
less  privileges  to  be  allowed  a  man  in  proportion  to  his  ability  of 
keeping  early  hours,  the  work  given  his  faculties,  &c.,  wiU  at  least 
concede  their  due  merits  to  such  representations  as  the  following. 
In  the  first  place,  says  the  injured  but  calm  appealer,  I  have  been 
warm  all  night,  and  find  my  system  in  a  state  perfectly  suitable  to  a 
warm-blooded  animal.  To  get  out  of  this  state  into  the  cold,  besideg 
the  inharmonious  and  uncritical  abruptness  of  the  transition,  is  so 
unnatural  to  such  a  creature,  that  the  poets,  refining  upon  the  tor- 
tures of  the  damned,  make  one  of  their  greatest  agonies  consist  in 
being  suddenly  transported  from  heat  to  cold, — from  fire  to  ice.  They 
are  "  haled "  out  of  their  "  beds,"  says  Milton,  by  "  harpy-footed 
furies," — fellows  who  come  to  call  them. — On  my  first  movement 
towards  the  anticipation  of  getting  up,  I  find  that  such  parts  of  the 
sheets  and  bolster,  as  are  exposed  to  the  air  of  the  room,  are  stone 
cold.  On  opening  my  eyes,  the  first  thing  that  meets  them  is  my 
own  breath  rolling  forth,  as  if  in  the  open  air,  like  smoke  out  of  a 
cottage-chimney.  Think  of  this  symptom.  Then  I  turn  my  eyes 
sideways  and  see  the  window  all  frozen  over.  Think  of  that.  Then 
the  servant  comes  in.     "  It  is  very  cold  this  morning,  is  it  not?" 


118  THE  INDICATOR. 

*'  Very  cold.  Sir.'* — "  Very  cold  indeed,  isn't  it  ?" — "  Very  cold  in- 
deed. Sir." — "^More  than  usually  so,  isn't  it,  even  for  this  weather  ?" 
(Here  the  servant's  wit  and  good  nature  are  put  to  a  consideratjle 
test,  and  the  inquirer  lies  on  thorns  for  the  answer.)  "  Why,  Sir  -  - 
-  -  I  think  it  is."  (Good  creature !  There  is  not  a  better,  or  more 
truth-telling  servant  going.)  "  I  must  rise  however — Get  me  some 
warm  water." — Here  comes  a  fine  interval  between  the  departure  of 
the  servant  and  the  arrival  of  the  hot  water ;  during  which,  of  course, 
it  is  of  "  no  use  "  to  get  up.  The  hot  water  comes.  "  Is  it  quite 
hot?" — "  Yes,  Sir." — "  Perhaps  too  hot  for  shaving:  I  must  wait  a 
little  ?"—"  No,  Sir  J  it  will  just  do."  (There  is  an  over-nice  propriety 
sometimes,  an  ofl&cious  zeal  of  virtue,  a  little  troublesome.)  ""Oh — 
the  shirt— you  must  air  my  clean  shirt: — linen  gets  very  damp  this 
weather."— Yes,  Sir."  Here  another  delicious  five  minutes.  A  knock 
at  the  door.  "  Oh,  the  shirt — very  well.  My  stockings — I  think 
the  stockings  had  better  be  aired  too." — "  Very  well.  Sir." — -Here 
another  interval.  At  length  every  thing  is  ready,  except  myself.  I 
now,'continues  our  incumbent  (a  happy  word,  by  the  bye,  for  a  coun- 
try vicar) — I  now  cannot  help  thinking  a  good  deal — who  can  ? — ■ 
upon  the  unnecessary  and  villainous  custom  of  shaving :  it  is  a  thing 
so  unmanly  (here  I  nestle  closer) — so  effeminate  (here  I  recoil  froih 
an  unlucky  step  into  the  colder  part  of  the  bed.) — No  wonder,  that 
the  Queen  of  France  took  part  with  the  rebels  against  that  degene- 
rate Kingi  her  husband,  who  first  affronted  her  smooth  visage  witlit 
a  face  like  her  own.  The  Emperor  -Julian  never  showed  the  IttxU- 
rianCy  of  his  genius  to  better  advantage  than  in  reviving  the  flowing 
beard.  Look  at  Cardinal  Bembo's  picture — at  Michael  Angelo's— ^ 
at  Titian's— ^at  Shakspeare's— at  Fletcher's — at  Spenser's — at  Chau- 
cer's—at  Alfred's-^at  Plato's. — I  could  name  a  great  man  for  every 
tick  of  my  watch. — Look  at  the  Turks,  a  grave  and  otiose  people.— 
Think  of  Haroun  Al  Raschid  and  Bed-ridden  Hassan — Think  of 
Wortley  Montague,  the  worthy  son  of  his  mother,  a  man  above  the 
prejudice  of  his  time — Look  at  the  Persian  gentlemen,  whom  ofie 
is  ashamed  of  meeting  about  the  suburbs,  their  dress  and  appear- 
ance are  so  much  finer  than  our  own — Lastly,  think  of  the  razor 
itself — how  totally  opposed  to  every  sensation  of  bed — how  cold,  ho-w 
edgy,  how  hard!  how  utterly  different  frond  any  thing  like  the  wafrn 
and  circling  amplitude,  which 

Sweetly  recommends  itself 
Unto  our  gentle  senses. 

Add  to  this,  benumbed  fingers,  which  may  help  you  to  cut  yourself, 
a  quivering  body,  a  frozen  towel,  and  an  ewer  full  of  ice  3  and  he 
that  says  there  is  nothing  to  oppose  in  all  this,  only  shews,  at  any 
rate,  that  he  has  no  merit  in  opposing  it. 

Thomson  the  poet,  who  exclaims  in  his  Seasons — 

Falsely  luxuriovis !    Will  not  man  awake?  wi  no  f 

used  t6  life  iff  bed  till  noon-,  because  he  said  he  had  no  motive  ift^^l'-^ 
ting  up.  He  could  imagine  the  good  of  rising;  but  then  h6  cotfld^ 
also  imagine  the  good  of  lying  stiilj  and  his  exclamation,  it  rdttst'  hi^ 


THE  INDICATOR.  U9 

allowed^  was  made  upon  summcsr-tiqie,  not  winter,  We  must  pro- 
portion the  argument  to  the  individual  character.  A  money-getter 
may  be  drawn  out  of  his  bed  by  three  and  four-pence;  but  this  will 
not  suffice  for  a  student.  A  proud  man  may  say  "  What  shall  I  think  of 
myself,  if  \  don't  get  i\p?"  but  the  more  humble  one  will  be  content 
to  waive  this  prodigious  notion  of  himself,  out  of  respect  to  his  kindly 
bpd.  Th^  mechanical  man  shall  get  up  without  any  ado  at  all;  and 
so  shall  the  barometer-  An  ingenious  lier  in  bed  will  find  hard  mat-  . 
ter  of  discussion  even  on  the  score  of  health  and  longevity.  He  will 
ask  us  for  our  proofs  and  precedents  of  the  ill  effects  of  lying  later 
in  cold  weather ;  and  sophisticate  much  on  the  advantages  of  an  even 
temperature  of  body ;  of  the  natural  propensity  (pretty  universal) 
to  have  one's  way ;  and  of  the  animals  that  roll  themselves  up^  and 
sleep  all  the  winter.  As  to  longevity,  he  will  ask  whether  the  longest 
life  is  of  necessity  the  best ;  apd  whether  Holborn  is  the  handsomest 
street  in  ^jondon. 

We  only  know  of  one  confounding,  not  to  say  confounded  argument, 
fit  to  overture  th^  huge  luxury,  the  "  enormous  bliss" — of  the  vice  in 
question.  A  lier  in  bed  may  be  allowed  to  profess  a  disinterested 
indifference  for  his  health  or  longevity;  but  while  he  is  shewing  the 
reasonableness  of  consulting  his  own,  or  one  person's  comfort^  he 
must  admit  the  p:foportionate  claim  of  more  than  one ;  and  the  best 
way  to  deal  with  him  is  this,  especially  for  a  lady ;  for  we  earnestly 
recommend  the  use  of  that  sex  on  such  occasions,  if  not  somewhat 
ouer-persuasive ;  since  extremes  have  an  awkward  knack  of  meeting. 
First  then,  admit  all  the  ingeniousness  of  what  he  says,  telling  him 
that  the  bar  has  been  deprived  of  an  excellent  lawyer.  Then  look  at 
him  in  the  most  goodnatured  manner  in  the  world,  with  a  mixture 
of  assent  and  appeal  in  your  countenance,  and  tell  him  that  you  are 
waiting  breakfast  for  him  ;  that  you  never  like  to  breakfast  without 
him ;  that  you  really  want  it  too ;  that  the  servents  want  theirs ; 
that  you  shall  not  know  how  to  get  the  hotise  into  order,  unless  he 
rises  ;  and  that  you  are  sure  he  would  do  things  twenty  times  worse, 
even  than  getting  out  of  his  warm  bed,  to  put  them  all  into  good 
humour  and  a  state  of  comfort.  Then,  after  having  said  this,  throw 
in  the  comparatively  indifferent  matter,  to  him,  about  his  health ;  but 
tell  him  that  it  is  no  indifferent  matter  to  you ;  that  the  sight  of  his 
illness  makes  more  people  suffer  than  one ;  but  that  if  nevertheless, 

he  really  does  feel  so  very  sleepy  and  so  very  much  refreshed  by 

Yet  stay ;  we  hardly  know  whethei;  the  frailty  of  a  —  Yes,  yes  ;  say 
that  too,  especially  if  you  say  it  with'  sincerity ;  for  if  the  weakness 
of  human  nature  on  the  one  hand,  and  the  vis  inertice  on  the  other, 
should  lead  him  to  take  advantage  of  it  once  or  twice,  good-humour 
and  sincerity  form  an  irresistible  junction  at  last;  and  are  still  better 
and  warmer  things  than  pillows  and  blankets. 

Other  little  helps  of  appeal  may  be  thrown  in,  as  occasion  requires. 

You  may  tell  a  lover  for  instance,  that  lying  in  bed  makes  people 

corpulent  j  a  father,  that  you  wish,  him  to  complete  the  fine  manly 

■  example  he  sets.his  children ;  a  lady,  that  she  will  injure  her  bloom 

or  her  shape,  which  M.  or  W,  adipires  so  much;  and  a  student  or 


120  THE  INDICATOR. 

artist,  that  he  is  always  so  glad  to  have  done  a  good  day's  work,'  in 
his  best  manner. 

Reader.  And  pray,  Mr.  Indicator,  how  do  you  behave  yourself  in 
this  respect  ?  • 

Indie.  Oh,  Madam,  perfectly,  of  course ;  like  all  advisers. 

Reader.  Nay,  I  allow  that  your  mode  of  argument  does  not  look 
quite  so  suspicious  as  the  old  way  of  sermonizing  and  severity,  but 
I  have  my  doubts,  especially  from  that  laugh  of  yours.  If  I  should 
look  in  to-morrow  morning 

Indie.  Ah,  Madam,  the  look  in  of  a  face  like  yours  does  any  thing 

with  me.    It  shall  fetch  me  up  at  nine,  if  you  please six,  1  meant 

to  say. ' 

V 

It  does  not  enter  within  the  plan,  or  perhaps  we  should  rather  say, 
the  understood  promises,  of  this  little  weekly  publication,  to  relieve 
the  Editor  with  tnuch  correspondence ;  but  he  is  glad  when  he  can 
indulge  himself,  in  proportion ;  and  he  inserts  with  pleasure  the  fol- 
lowing piece  of  poetry,  which  is  .very  much  to  his  heathenish  taste. 

vox  ET  PRJETEREA.  NIHIL. 
Oh!  what  a  voice  is  silent.     It  was  soft 
As  mouutain-echoes,  when  the  winds  aloft 
(The  gentle  winds  of  summer)  meet  in  caves  ; 
Or  when  in  sheltered  places  the  white  waves 
Are  'waken'd  into  music,  as  the  breeze 
Dimples  and  stems  the  clirrent :  or  as  trees 
Shaking  their  green  locks  in  the  days  of  June  : 
Or  Delphic  girls  when  to  the  maiden  moon 
They  sang  harmonious  pray'rs:  or  sounds  that  come 
(However  near)  like  a  faint  distant  hum 
Out  of  the  grass,  from  which  mysterious  birth 
We  guess  the  busy  secrets  of  the  earth. 
—  Like  the  low  voice  of  Syrinx,  when  she  ran 
Into  the  forests  from  Arcadian  Pan  : 
Or  sad  (Enone's,  when  she  pined  away 
For  Paris,  or  (and  yet  'twas  not  so  gay) 
As  Helen's  whisper  when  she  came  to  Troy, 
Half  sham'd  to  wander  with  that,  blooming  boy. 
Like  air-touch'd  harps  in  flowery  casements  hung; 
Like  unto  lovers'  ears  the  wild  words  sung 
In  garden  bowers  at  twilight :  like  the  sound 
Of  Zephyr  when  he  takes  his  nightly  round 
In  TMay,  to  see  the  roses  all  asleep  : 
Or  like  the  dim  strain  which  along  the  deep 
The  sea-maid  utters  to  the  sailors'  ear, 
Telling  of  tempests,  or  of  dangers  near. 
Like  Desdemona,  who  (when  fear  was  strong 
Upon  her  soul)  chaunted  the  willow  song. 
Swan-like  before  she  perish'd  :  or  the  tone 
Of  flutes  upon  the  waters  heard  alone: 
■   =  Like  words  that  come  upon  the  memory 

,      Spoken  by  friends  departed ;  or  the  sigh 
A  gentle  girl  breathes  when  sbe  tries  to  hide 
The  love  her  eyes  betray  to  all  beside. 

XXX. 


Ordcirs  received  by  the  Booksellers,  by  the  Newsmen,  and  by  the  Publisher,  Joseph  A<>plevari^ 

No.  19,  Catherine-street,  Strand.— Price  2d. 

Printed  by  C.  H.  Rbynell,  No.  45,  Broad-street,  Golden-square,  London. 


THE    INDICATOR- 

There  he  arriving  round  about  doth  flie. 
And  takes  survey  with  busie,  curious  eye : 
Now  this,  now  that,  he  tasteth  tenderly. 

Spenser. 


-  r-ji.'  vofi ;  "if 


No.  XVI.— WEDNESDAY,    JANUARY  26th,  18 


>}  olds, 

■di'iiidl 


EXTREMES  MEETj  OR,  ALL  LONDON  AND  NO  LONDON.*  v  r 
A  TALE. 

In  a  village  not  far  from  the  metropolis,  lives  a  hearty  old  fellow,  who 
is  the  comfort  of  all  his  neighbours  with  his  vivacity  and  his  pleasant 
stoi'ies.  He  goodnaturedly  laughs  when  any  one  calls  him  old  ;  and 
says  he  looks  upon  himself  as  a  youth,  who  has  white  instead  of  brown 
hair,  and  that  he  took  leave  of  his  old  age  in  the  fortieth  yeai^  of  his  life. 

Happening  to  stroll  as  far  as  this  village,  one  afternoon  last  sum- 
mer, I  fell  into  conversation  with  him,  in  consequence  of  putting  my 
head  into  his  cottage  to  ask  my  way  to  some  remains  of  antiquity. 
He  was  sitting  after  dinner,  with  his  spectacles  on,  reading  a  bools» 
and  getting  up  with  a  lively  and  willing  face,  said  he  would  shew,  me 
th#  way  if  I  pleased.  I  was  glad  to  accept  his  offer,  and  chat  with 
him,  for  besides  loving  chearfulness  for  itself,  a  chearful  old  man 
gives  one's  own  life  a  pleasant  prospect.  It  seems  a  kind  of  baulk 
given  to  the  gloomy  aspect  and  pretensions  of  Death.  I  asked  him 
what  book  he  was  reading. 

"  Why,  Sir,"  said  he,  half  laughing,  taking  off  his  spectacles, 
nodding  at  the  same  time  his  head,  and  giving  a  little  tremulous  jerk, 
of  his  knee, — "  you  may  think  it  an  odd  book  for  an  old  man  to  read, 
(it  was  the  history  of  Philip  Quarll)  but  I  always  tell  my  neighbours 
that  they  and  the  parish- register  are  mistaken,  and  that  having  re- 
turned to  my  native  village,  after  a  death  of  fifteen  years  in  the  city  of 
London,  I  took  up  my  life  where  I  left  it,  at  thirty,  and  so  though 
they  take  me  for  seventy-five,  am  not  more  than  fifty-five  at  most-" 

You  may  imagine  I  was  highly  delighted  vdth  this  notion  of  ^ 
metropolitan  non-existence ;  I  told  him  as  much ;  and  while  he  waa 
reaching  his  hat  down  from  a  peg,  took  an  opportunity  of  looking  at 
his  other  books  and  his  pictures  about  the  room.  Among  the  latter, 
were  the  Four  Seasons  prodigiously  red-lipped  and  smiling ;  and 
amdng  the  former,  Robinson  Crusoe,  Robin  Hood's  Garland,  The 
Grardener's  Calendar,  an  odd  volume  of  Shakspeare,  and  De  Foe'a 
History  of  the  Plague  of  London.  ,». 

"  You  seem  to  have  an  antipathy  to  London  ?*'  said  L  *'  Why  t^ 
must  own.  Sir/*  answered  he,  "  there  is  no  love  lost  between  us.   It 


122  THE  INDICATOR. 

would  be  very  well,  if  it  wasn't  such  a  great  overgrown,  smoky,  sickly, 
place ;  but  they  build,  and  they  build,  and  all  the  gentry  go  there  as 
if  they  were  going  to  a  fair  ^  and  so  they  stop  when  the  fair  is  over, 
and  make  n  dismal  odd  sojourning  of  it.  There  were  two  squires 
who  went  up  to  London,  when  I  was  a  little  boy,  and  got  places 
there,  as  they  are  called.  Very  pretty  places  they  left  behind  them, 
I  know ;  but  times  were  hard,  .and  people  said  the  squires  couldn't 
descend.  You  know  what  they  meant.  Sir.  So  the  squires  not  being 
able  to  descend,  went  up  to  town ;  and  there  I  saw  them  and  their' s, 
when  I  went  afterwards,  squeezed  up  in  tall  narrow  houses,  not  a 
fourth  part  of  the  size  of  their  own  pretty  ones  over  the  way  yonder ; 
— you  may  see  one  of  'em.  Sir,  among  the  limes  ; — it  belongs  now  to 
a  lawyer ;  and  the  other  belongs  to  What's-his-name  there,  the  great 
distiller,  who  never  sets  eyes  on  it.  Well,  Sir,  as  I  was  saying,  I 
saw  the  s(J^ui res' and  their  families,  and  young  master,  who  gave  me  my 
dog  here — Robin,  Robin — ah,  he's  got  out  of  doors — we  shall  find  him, 
when  we  gp-— but  I'm  keeping. you.  Sir — Nay,  -  nay,  I  needn't  keep 
;^ou.  Sir,  for;  I  can  tell  you .  my  stoiy  as  you  go,  and  peihaps  it  may 
^imuse  !you  as '.you  Seem  fond  of  the  country."  Here  he  took  up  his 
book  agairi^  ahrf  put  it  into  his  pocket }  and  then  clappitig  the  pocket 
Smartly  witli  bne  hand,  and  buttoning  one  of  the  buttons  of  his  coat 
with  the  other,  lifted  a  latch  on  the  opposite  side  of  the  passage,  and 
putting  in  his  head  with,  *'  Get  the  tea.  Goody,  for  myself  and  neigh- 
bour Parkins,"  went  out  6t  the  door  with  me.  In  an  instant  we 
Were  joined  by  Robin,  whp  was  a  fine  eager-looking  dog,  and  seemed 
to  have  all  his  faculties  ready  for  a  scour.  : 

.''Robin;,  Sir,"  said  he,  "  was  given  me  when  I  was  in  London, 
and  was  then  called  Nero ;  but  why  ihey  gave  the  poor  beast  such  an 
fil  name,  I  coiild'n't  tell ;  and  so,  seeing  what  a  delight  he  took  when- 
ever he  saw  abit  of  green  grass,  or  got  near  the  parks,  and  how  he 
would  dart  away,  and  drive  round  and  round,  and  roll,  and  scamper, 
and  pant  with  joy ;  I  called  him  Robin,  you  see,— after  Robin  Hood, 
Sir,- — who  was  a  sort  of  prince  too,  you  know,  after  a  kind  of  a 
fashion,  under  his  "  greenwood  shade." — Well,  Sir,  as  I  was  saying 
about  the  squires ;  when  I  saw  them  living  so  humbly,  as  it  were,  or 
in  such  small  houses,  I  thought  to  myself  at  first— Oh  ho!  what, — 
does  coming  up  to  London  help  to  bring  up  the  thing  they  talk  of  in 
books,  some  for,  and  some  against,  about  puttipg  people  in  general 
more  on  a  level  with  one  another!  I  didn't  think  so,  you  know, 
Sirj  but  somehow  or  other,  the  fancy  struck  me.  I  know  it's  im- 
;^ossible  for"  siich  a  thing  to  be,  unless  people  could  be  all  born  with 
the  same  brains  and  bodies,  though  I  do  think  with  some,  that  there 
is  a  much  greater  difference  in  the  business  than  need  be ;  though: 
before  it  can  be  altered,  it  wiU  take  a  vast  deal  of  better  learning  -io 
the  poor  and  humble,  and,  as  for  that  matter  perhaps,  in  the  Kich 
and  high  too.- — Well,  Sir,  to  cut  this  matter  short,  for  1  must  cogar-^ 
fess  I  have  got  somehow  or  other  a  mighty  trick  of  talking  siuQe;! 
came -back  to  my  village,  and  can't  tell  a  thing  half  so  speedily  as  I 
cqii^d  i^^LoiXdop^^^^a^        I  shall  never  get  to  my  story.    I  saw  ,the 


THE  INDICATOR.  ^S 

squires,  and  there  instead  of  being  grown  humble,  itt  ori^'Vay  :fit 
least,  they  had  grown  more  grand  a  great  deal,— only  afe  I  thougtit 
with  a  very  odd  sort  of  exchange.  In  their  old  homes  here — we  ATe 
now  going  by  one  of  'em.  Sir, — you  might  have  had  a  dance  in  thie 
hall,  and  there  were  at  least  twenty  rooms  a-piece  to  'em  :  but  iii 
London, — what  they  called  the  hall  of  one  of  the  houses,  wasn't  much 
bigger  than  my  own  little  passage,  though  exceeding  trim  and  tight 
to  be  sure.  I  remember  I  almost  broke  the  lamp-glass  with  the 
bundle  at  the  end  of  my  stick : — instead  of  the  great  piece  of  gtound 
there  in  front  of  the  house,  and  the  roses  and  honeysuckles  all  o^^fer 
the  windows,  there  was  no  ground  at  all,  and  only  a  dusty  bit  of^ 
vine,  which  I  thought  looked  better  too  than  nothing  ;  and  instead 
of  the  fine  garden  behind,  and  the  paddock,  and  the  kitcheh-gardi^ri, 
and  the  fine  prospect,  I  almost  started  when  the  footman  shewed  m'e 
the  back  of  the  house,  which  was  a  bit  of  a  yard  hardly  big  enough 
for  a  couple  of  boys  to  play  at  hop-scotch  in,  surrounded  with  the 
walls  of  other  yards,  and  the  backs  of  other  houses.  The  h6uSe  '{if 
the  other  squire  had  a  bit  of  garden,  to  be  sure, — long,  and  ti^tYo^, 
and  with  strips  of  brick  wall,  boxed  flower-ground,  and  graVel,  tha,*t 
almost  set  one's  teeth  on  edge  to  look  at,  they  seem'd  so  hard  atid 
dry.  I  remember  however  I  thought  it  a  very  pretty  thing,  attet  *! 
had  been  in  London  for  a  year  or  two.  I  didn't  know  whether  thfe 
squires  were  glad  to  see  me  br  not.  They  spoke  to  me  more  faifaii 
liarly  than  usual,  and  yet  somehow  or  other,  didn't  seem  so  kind  not 
so  «M-proud.  Their  rooms  wei-e  full  of  black  and  gilt  furnitur^, 
mighty  fine  and  gloomy  as  I  thought ;  and  coming  out  of  Squill 
Wilson's,  I  ran  against  the  physician,  who  was  coming  up  the  steps, 
and  who  cursed  me  in  the  oddest  sweet  tone  of  voice  I  ever  heard 
swear.     However  he  laughed  the  next  minute.  .♦ 

*' Well,  Sir  J  I've  been  talking  to  you  a  great  deal  about  oth«?f 
people,  but  it  shews  you  what  I  thought  of  going  to  London ;  and  yet 
would  you  believe  it,  I  lived  in  that  very  London  for  fifteen  years 
afterwards,  and  for  the  last  ten  never  stirred  out  of  it !  I  did'ttt 
indeed !  I'll  tell  you  how  it  was.  My  young  master,  as  I  called  him, 
the  son  of  one  of  the  squires, — (I  was  the  village-cai'penter's  son, 
and  he  used  to  play  with  me)  had  got  a  place  as  well  as  his  father,-^ 
not  under  government  though, — but  in  the  city  at  a  great  banker's^" 
and  so,  as  there  was  a  man  wanting  there  to  do  a  number  of  things, 
such  as  go  of  messages,  and  help  to  take  care  of  the  premises  at 
night,  he  got  me  a  place  too.  Young  master,  I  know,  intended 
kindly  to  me ;  and  I  thought  it  a  fine  thing  when  I  was  sent  foti 
I  was  not  a  clerk,  to  be  sure,  but  then  I  was  not  a  mere  servant  J 
and  the  under  clerks  and  the  housekeeper  used  to  let  me  dine  witli 
them.  I  soon  got  into  what  they  called  the  routine  of  my  business; 
I  did  a  quantity  of  messages  and  things  all  day,  and  Strolled  ^  littte 
way  out  of  town  on  Sundays,  when  it  was  hot  my  turn  to  stop  at 
home.  Spmetinles  I'd  walk  almost  twenty  rniles  out  oh  a  Sunday  j 
sometimes  I. went  a  nutting,  sometimes  a  boating,  and  sonietimes 
only  loitered  about  the  suburbs  for  fear  of  being  caught  In'  the  taltf 


1^4  THE,  INDICATOR. 

With  my:  ^^ew  hat,  and  so  poked  about  the  new  buildings,  with  a  sixr' 
penny  can^,  and  eat  apples  and  gingerbread.  I  looked  in  at  ehtu'cb^ 
by,  the  way ;  but  always  used  to  feel  as  if  1  said  a  kind  of  prayer  in  the 
fields,  things  were  so  beautiful  there  and  grand.  I  remember  there  were 
twp,  chief  clerks  in  our  office,  one  of  whom  was  a  Methodist,  while 

the  other  laughed  at  the  Methodists You  are  not  a  Methodist, 

are  you  Sir  r— I  thought  not.  You  laugh  differently,  and  seem  to  think 
ther,e  ^re  good  things  in  this  world  as  well  as  in  the  next.  Look,  Sir, 
at^.  the  beautiful  prospect  there. — Ah,  Molly,  how  d'ye  do  to  day? 
T^hy  you  look  as  kind  and  handsome  as  ever  ! — A  dairy- maid.  Sir, 
at  Squire  Smith's — bless  her  good-tempered  face. — Well,  Sir,  the 
Methodist  wanted  to  make  one  of  me  j  but  no,  no,  thought  l-^I  am 
not  so  sick  or  so  selfish  as  that  comes  to;  for  I  knew  him  and  the 
,rest  of  'em  well  enough.  So  the  other  clerk  used  to  laugh  at  him, 
when  he  made  me  argue,  as  they  call  it,  and  used  to  laugh  at  me 
too,  for  seeming  to  think  more  than  I  chose  to  say.  There  are  some 
good  men  among  'em  too,  but  they  all  seem  so  hard-hearted  in  their 
notions,  whatever  they  may  be  in  their  conduct ;  whereas  the  laughing 
clerk,  who  could  be  the  gravest  and  kindest  gentleman  in  the  world 
too  when  you  wanted  it,  was  soft-hearted  both  in  his  notions  and 
conduct;  and  I  take  that  to  be  the  better  side.  For  my  part,  I 
jrejilly  wonder  sometimes  how  such  notions  of  a  good  God  and  his 
■yvorks  can  get  abroad ;  but  then  I  think  of  the  great  town,  and  all 
t^eir  plagues,  and  diseases,  and  driving  of  monies,  and  who's  to  won- 
der that  people  get  sick  and  superstitious,  and  full  of  bad  con« 
spiences,  and  think  to  get  on  in  the  next  world  as  they  do  in  this,  with 
all  sorts  of  bad  opinions,  both  of  themselves  and  their  betters  ? 

"  Bless  me : — well  I  shall  never  get  to  my  story,  to  be  sure,  and 
yet  here  we  are  at  the  top  of  the  hill.  Egad,  Sir,  this  is  very  different 
air  that, comes  in  one's  face,  from  that  one  meets  on  Snow-hill  or  Cheap- 
si,(Je.  Hah! — hah!  Glorious  indeed!"  and  so  saying,  the  old  youth 
took,  off  his  hat,  and  stood  a  minute,  shutting  his  eyes,  and  drinks 
ing  in,  as  it  were,  draughts  of  health.  I  enjoyed  the  freshness  with 
him,  and  took  off  my  gloves  that  I  might  feel  as  much  of  it  as  I 
could,  lifting  my  palms  to  catch  the  breeze,  for  I  was  feverish  with 
having  stopped  too  long  in-doors,  I  told  him  so;  upon  which  he 
put  on  his  hat  again  with  a  sigh,  and  began  moving  down  the  hill ;— — 
•^' Ah,  young  gentleman,"  said  he,  (for  so  he  called  me  in  the  father- 
liness  of  his  age)  "  now  would  I  lay  my  life,  that  you  are  one  of 
those,  studious  persons  who  read  so  much  about  the  fields  that  they 
Ijave  not  time  to  walk  in  them."  I  laughed,  and  said  it  was  a  KUle 
too  much  the  case;  "  and  yet,"  added  I,  "  I  have  haunted  the  fiekis 
to  .t^ie  north-west  of  London  ever  since  I  was  a  lad,  and  hardly  ever 
fpumi  another  man  in  them, — never,  at  any  rate,  one  who  seemed  liExa^ 
the  same  business  of  enjoyment."  .   > ;  ? 

/f  You  don't  say  so!"  replied  he,  stopping  for  an  instant^  axul 
turning,  full  in  my  face: — "  but  why  do  I  say  you  don't  say, so," 
oonti'iuedhe,  /'  for  as  I  told  you  before.  Sir,  I  was  myself  yeans  t8» 
gei^^";g504,ne^^r  set  foot  in  the  fi^sj  and  th^fs  leminds  was  AhatI 


THE  INDICATOR.  125 

must  come  to  my  story  at  last.  Well  then.  Sir/  I  Went  on  living  itf 
the  way  [  spoke  of^  for  five  years,  by  which  time  I  had  become  a 
confidential  servant  of  the  house.  I  then  had  a  little  more  leisure; 
I  was  always  fond  of  reading,  and  now  I  read  more  than  ever.  Aye, 
aye.  Sir,  you  may  smile  j  you  have  a  right  to  it,  and  the  truth  must 
out.  But  I  love  reading  as  well  as  you;  I  think  it's  only  bad,  as 
they  say,  in  the  abuse.  I  was'nt  scholar  enough  however,  to  be  spoilt 
by  overmuch  study;  though,  to  be  sure,  I  must  say,  that  when  I 
gave  up  going  into  the  fields,  I  had  better  have  spent  half  the  time 
I  did  in  my  book,  and  gone  out  the  other  half.  But  I'll  tell  you  how 
it- was.  Sir.  I  hadn't  so  much  exercise  to  take  as  before,  though 
enough  to  keep  me  in  decent  health ;  my  evenings  were  my  owii 
more  than  they  used  to  be ;  and  what  with  all  this,  and  some  losses 
that  I  had,  I  took  to  going  to  a  club,  which  the  under  clerks  fre- 
quented, and  which  they  were  glad  enough  I  should  join,  on  iaccount 
of  my  love  of  reading,  which  enabled  me  to  talk  better  than  most  of 
them.  To  this  club  I  used  to  go  every  night  after  my  day's  worki^ 
and  there,  what  with  talking,  and  debating,  and  eating  hot  coarse 
dishes,  and  drinking  brandy  and  water,  I  went  home  with  my  head 
muddled;  and  that  made  me  prefer  lying  in  bed  of  a  Sunday  morning 
to  walking  abroad;  and  that  made  me  a  little  sick  and  gloomy;  and 
that  made  me  drink  moi'e  brandy  arjd  water ;  and  that  made  me 
muddled  again,  and  sick,  and  lazy,  and  so  on ;  till  at  last  between 
pain  and  pleasure,  and  liking  and  necessity,  I  got  into  such  a  regular 
habit  of  spending  my  days  and  evenings  in  this  manner,  that  I  never 
went  out  of  the  heat  of  London,  Southwark,  and  Westminster,  for 
four  years.  I  thought  of  the  country  sometimes,  and  wished  I  was 
as  comfortable  somehow  as  I  used  to  be  there,  for  my  head  used  to 
feel  thick  and  dim,  as  it  were,  and  my  eyes  hot;  but  then  I  had  a 
good  deal  of  walking  still,  which  took  off  the  worst  part  of  the  queer- 
ness,  and  there  was  a  little  bowling-green  public -house,  near  the 
suburbs,  which  contrived  to  look  like  a  little  bit  of  a  vills^e  house 
still ;  and  there  I  went  now  and  then ;  but  you  may  think  it  odd, — > 
I  used  to  lose  my  temper  there  more  than  any  where  else ;  and  this 
1  did'nt  like,  besides  it's  exciting  me  to  drink  more  brandy  and  wa*i^  , 
ter ;  and  so  latterly  I  left  off  going,  and  stuck  to  my  club  in  thei 
city.  At  last,  what  was  odder  still,  I  took  a  sort  of  dislike  to  the 
thought  of  the  country ;  and  partly  from  this,  and  partly  I  believe 
Jpom  the  vanity  of  being  wondered  at  for  it,  made  a  practice  of  boast- 
ing that  1  never  went  to  see  it ;  and  so,  between  boasting  and  making 
a;f6dl -of  myself,  and  going  of  messages,  and  muddling  my  headi -I 
aJrivied  at  the  fifth  year  of  my  death,  as  I  call  it.  -         '^ 

**' I' was  silly  enough.  Sir,  at  that  period,  to  hav6  a  kind  of  feii^ 
in  'honor  of  my  nonsense  in  having  stopped  so  long  among  the  noii^ 
and  smoke.  It  was  held  at  the  club;  and  about  a  week  after,  tlrer 
good-tempered  clerk  of  whom  I  spoke  to  you,  ^nd  who  had  laughed 
at  me  for  it,  and  said  I  Was  a  foolish  fellow  (which' iiiade  me  dnAKi^ 
<3«ubie^the  quantity  of  biandy  that  eveining)  tdld  ine  that  theW 
*as^aa  iM  gantlemaUj,-  iaa-ifcquairitaiace  df  Mi,  and^&t-mueh  wfe^ 


1^6  THE  INDICATOR. 

than  myself,  who  wanted  to  speak  with  me.  It  struck  me  at  first  I 
needn't  go  to  see  a  person,  of  whom  the  clerk  gave  such  a  character  j 
but  then  I  didn't  wish  to  offend  that  excellent  man,  though  he  made 
me  ashamed  of  myself}  and  besides  I  was  a  little  piqued,  if  I  was  not 
offended,  at  hearing  the  gentleman  called  no  wiser  than  myself,  and 
wanted  to  think  he  was  a  very  clever  fellow  in  consequence.  So  I 
went  to  him ;  and  what  d'ye  think  he  said  to  me  ?  I  found  him  with 
a  night  cap  on;  and  a  basin  of  broth  by  his  side; — a  little  man,  with 
a  great  puffed  red  face  that  looked  as  if  it  was  full  of  blood;  and  I 
couldn't  tell  at  first  whether  he  was  angry  with  me  or  pleased. 

"  So,"  says  he,  "  they  tell  me  that  you  have  not  been  out  of  the 
metropolis  for  five  years  ?" 

"  Yes,  Sir,  it's  very  true." 

*'  Eh,-^and  that  yon  make  a  joke  of  the  country,  and  prefer  the 
town?" 

"  Why,  Sir,  I  joke  sometimes  about  it  at  the  club." 

*'  Eh, — and  that  you  had  a  supper  the  other  night  in  comme- 
moration of  the  fifth  year  of  your  never  having  seen  it?" 

"  Why  yes.  Sir, — I  hope  no  offence?" 

"  Offence ! — Curse  the  country, — it's  pigs,  it's  sheep,  it's  hedges, 
it's  ditches,  it's  people,  it's  every  thing!" 

''  I  was  quite  petrified.  Sir,  as  you  may  suppose,  at  this  burst  of 
the  old  gentleman's,  which  ended  in  making  his  face  look  twice  as 
full  and  fiery  as  before,  and  forced  him  to  speak  in  a  whisper.  He 
thfen  told  me  that  he  always  despised  the  country  with  it's  idle  non- 
sense, and  that  he  had  lately  got  good  reason  to  hate  it, — which  I 
found  afterwards  was  the  marriage  of  his  daughter  with  my  young 
master,  who  had  gone  with  her,  to  make  the  best  of  his  little  patri- 
mony;'— we  shall  see  it  in  a  minute,  when  we  get  to  the  green  lane. 
-^But  what  do  you  think  our  conversation  about  the  country  ended 
with  ?  Why,  Sir,  with  his  telling  me  he  liked  my  spirit,  and  that 
he  would  give  me  twice  my  present  income  a  year,  so  as  to  enable 
me  to  leave  off  going  of  messages,  upon  condition  that  I  never  saw 
the  face  of  the  Country  again." 

'^  Done,  Sir,"  said  I,  in  the  bragging  of  my  heart.  "Done,' 
said  he,  ^'  and  done  sure  enough  it  was, — ^the  bargain  and  my  com-* 
fori  too. 

'^  Sir,  I  liked  my  independence,  as  T  thought  it,  mightily  at  first ; 
sotae  of  the  clerks,  especially  the  wise  one,  shook  their  heads  at  me; 
the  others  said  1  was  a  fine  fellow,  and  had  made  my  fortune.  I  left 
©ff  trampling  about  the  streets.  I  only  loitered  about  them,  looked 
at  the  picture-shops,  and  over  the  book-stalls,  which  lasted  me  a 
'i)retty  good  while.  By  degrees,  I  got  quite  a  little  library ;  and 
when  I  wasn't  lo\mging  about,  I  read,  and  I  went  to  the  two  shil- 
ling gallery  sometimes  at  the  theatres,  and  above  all,  went  to  the 
club,  and  cut. more  noisy  jokes,  and  drank  more  brandy  and  water 
than  ever. 

*'But,  Sir,  among  my  other  leisures,  I  had  leisure  to  think,  and 
then  I  thought  of  the  coruntry ;  and  that  was  the  devil.     (  Here's  the 


THE  INDICATOR.  12? 

green  lane.  Sir,  you  may  see  the  newly- whitened  houses  a  peeping 
half  Avay  down,  like  a  young  lass  in  a  corner.) — At  first  I  succeeded 
pretty  well  in  driving  the  thought  off;  but  in  proportion  as  I  staid 
longer  at  the  club,  and  took  less  exercise,  and  got  of  a  sickly  kind  of 
stomach,  I  found  the  thought  stuck  by  me.  The  brandy  and  water 
only  did  it  away  for  the  time.  If  I  had  taken  to  my  messages  again, 
I  believe  they  might  have  helped  me,  but  I  was  too  lazy,  and  to  tell 
you  the  truth,  was  ashamed.  I  thought,  as  the  Irishman  might  say> 
it  would  be  like  laughing  in  my  own  face.  So  I  crept  on,  and  crept 
on,  and  got  very  miserable.  I  went  to  my  old  bowling-green  ;  but 
that  made  me  worse.  I  then  bethought  me  of  seeing  the  prospect 
from  the  Monument ;  for  though  it  was  part  of  my  bargain  never  td 
see  the  face  of  the  country  again,  1  had  a  right,  you  know.  Sir,  to 
look  upon  that  as  what  they  call  a  figure  of  speech.  So  I  went  upj 
and  1  shall  never  forget !  I  made  haste  down  again,  for  I  thought 
,  I  should  have  thrown  myself  from  the  top.  But  I  couldn't  sleep  that 
night  for  thinking  of  the  beautiful  prospect,  the  water  and  distance 
on  one  side,  and  the  green  hills  on  the  other :  and  next  evening,  as 
my  stars  would  have  it,  I  went  to  the  theatre,  and  there  what  should 
I  see  but  Love  in  a  Village  !  Lord,  lord  !  How  merry  and  how  sad 
I  was  by  turns  !  There  was  a  dance  in  it  ready  to  make  me  get  up 
and  dance  over  the  gallery ;  and  there  was  the  old  gouty  Justice,  and 
Master  Hawthorn  with  his  gun,  and  the  pair  of  lovers  in  disguise, 
and  gardens  and  arbours,  and  the  old  song  that  I  sung  when  a  lad  ! 
I  couldn't  help  humming  in  with  some  of  them,  in  spite  of  the  looks 
of  people  about  me. 

"  It  was  all  over  with  me  after  this.  I  had  already  begun  to  find 
myself  a  •sort  of  a  knare  in  this  unnatural  situation.  My  old 
pensioner  had  got  his  money  much  like  the  rest  of  'em,  by  charg- 
ing, and  squeezing,  and  doing  no  good  that  ever  I  heard  of  j  and  I 
began  to  think  it  might  not  be  so  very  bad  to  cheat  him  a  little  in  the 
business.  Ah,  what  you  shake  your  head ; — well,  and  so  did  I,  and 
my  heart  too  j — but  you  shall  hear.  What  made  me  less  scrupulous 
was  the  news  of  his  going  out  of  town  himself  for  the  benefit  of  th6 
air.  It  struck  me,  to  be  sure,  that  I  was  going  to  do  a  wrong  thing  j 
but  then  I  thought  he  was  very  hard  upon  me  too,  and  unjust,  and 
might  have  given  me  the  pension  for  what  I  had  done  already,  instead 
of  what  I  was  to  do ;  and  so  as  wrong  produces  wrong,  and  nothing, 
I  find,  makes  one  so  careless  as  injustice  in  one's  superiors,  I  mad6  up 
my  mind  to  take  my  pleasiu-e,  and  suffer  pain  for  it  less  intolerable 
than  the  one  1  felt. 

"  Well,  Sir,  I  found  afterwards  that  my  old  gentleman  went  no 
farther  than  Hornsey,  a  very  pretty  place  too,  where  the  New  River 
runs,  and  very  rural.  Ah,  you  know  it : — ^well,  now.  Sir,  it  so  hap- 
pened, that  he  hadn't  been  there  above  a  month,  when  he  heard  of  a 
man,  who  was  quite  opposite  to  what  he  found  me,  and  who  came 
there  sometimes  of  an  afternoon  to.  a  pretty  house  and  tea-gardens, 
arid  talked  away  at  a  great  rate,  against  the  town. 

"  Oh,  tUe  rascal !"  said  h»j  "  I  suppose  he  is  sotwe^  fellow  running 


\^  THE  INDICATOR. 

awfeiy  from  the  bailiffs : — I  should  like  to  tell  him  of  my  fellow  in  the 
city." 

Here  I  burst  out  into  a  fit  of  laughter,  and  my  hero  joined  me 
very  heartily,  holding  his  sides,  with  the  tears  in  his  eyes,  and  whin- 
ing between  the  fits  at  the  top  of  his  voice. 

''Well,  Sir,"  he  resumed,  "  the  old  gentleman  -  -  the  old  gentle- 
man -  -  he  told  the  waiter  he  should  like  to  be  shewn  into  the  room 
where  the  fellow  was  making  merry  j  and  so,  one  Wednesday  after- 
noon -  -  one  Wednesday  afternoon,  -  -  when  a  whole  set  of  us  had  got 
together,  and  were  in  the  act  of  hurraing,  in  he  comes, — and  there 
was  I, — yes.  Sir, — there  was  I,  standing  on  the  table,  with  a  glass 
of  cyder  in  my  hand,  just  going  to  give  the  last  hurra ;  but  I  caught 
his  eye,  and  he  caught  mine,  and  we  stood  gaping  at  each  other. 

"  You  may  guess  the  result.  Sir.  It  wasn't  much  after  the  fashion 
of  some  stories  I  have  read.  I  didn't  convert  him  with  my  example, 
nor  he  me  with  his.  I  lost  my  pension,  made  up  matters  with  my 
conscience,  and  should  never  have  slept  sounder  than  the  night  after, 
if  I  hadn't  been  too  happy  with  thinking  how  I  should  go  into  the 
country.  Heaven  be  praised,  I  was  enabled  to  go  very  shortly  ;  for 
my  young  master>  hearing  of  my  adventure,  sent  for  me  down  here, 
and  made  me  his  gardener ;  and  so  I  left  ofi^  my  brandy  and  water, 
and  took  to  exercise  £^ain,  as  Well  as  my  book,  and  have  a  neighbour 
or  so,  to  visit  me  of  an  evening,  or  go  to  them,  and  tell  merry  tales 
Vith  the  young  ones,  and  should  be  as  healthy  and  happy  as  the  day 
is  long,  if  it  wasn't  for  seeing  so  many  people  plagued  with  the  taxes 
and  such  things.  But  if  we  must  be  plagued  sometimes,  it's  a  sort 
of  happiness,  in  my  mind,  to  be  plagued  in  fresh  air,  instead  of  foul ; 
and  so.  Sir,  I  have  made  a  terrible  long  business  of  my  story,  and 
here  you  are  at  your  antiquities." 

I  thanked  him  very  sincerely  for  his  history,,  and  invited  myself 
with  great  willingness  on  his  part,  to  a  cup  of  his  tea,  in  my  way 
home.  I  did  not  remain  long  where  he  left  me ;  for  not  having  an 
antiquary's  experience,  I  could  find  nothing  of  what  I  looked  for, 
except  the  mark  of  a  dyke ;  and  having  inspected  that  with  much 
pretended  satisfaction  to  myself,  and  felt  some  of  the  real  emotion, 
which  the  thought  of  any  thing  old  and  lasting  is  sure  to  give  us  in 
this  life,  I  reached  my  new  old  acquaintance  just  as  he  was  entering 
his  door,  and  took  one  of  the  pleasantest  cups  of  tea  I  ever  had  in 
my  life,  with  him  and  his  neighbour  Parkins,  who  was  an  old  sailor, 
and  had  been  half  round  the  world.  A  day  or  two  after,  I  sent 
my  old  anti-metropolitan,  who  pressed  me  to  call  that  way  again,  if 
he  might  be  so  bold, — a  few  books  of  poetry  and  story,  among  which 
%vas  Fairfax's  Tasso,  with  the  page  marked  down  where  Erminia  gets 
among  the  country-people. 


Orders  received  by  the  Booksellers,  by  the  Newsmen,  and  by  the  Fablisier,  Josefh  Apflbvabp, 

No.  19,  Catherine-street,  Strand.— Priee  2d. 

Prioted  by  C.  H.  Rbynell,  ^^o.45,  Broad^street,  Gcdden-sqvar*,  London. 


THE    INDICATOR. 


There  he  arrinng  round  about  doth  flie. 
And  takes  survey  with  busie,  curious  eye : 
Now  this,  now  that,  he  tasteth  tenderly. 

.    Sfenseb. 


No.  XVU.— WjEDNESDAY,  FEBRUARY  2nd,  1820. 


THE  OLD  GENTLEMAN. 


Our  Old  Gentleman,  in  order  to  be  exclusively  himself,  must  be 
either  a  widower  or  a  bachelor.  Suppose  the  former.  We  do  not 
niention  his  precise  age,  which  would  be  invidious ; — nor  whether 
he  wears  his  own  hair  or  a  wig  j  which  would  be  wanting  in  univer- 
sality. If  a  wig,  it  is  a  compromise  between  the  more  modern  scratch 
and  the  departed  glory  of  the  toupee.  If  his  own  hair,  it  is  white, 
in  spite  of  his  favourite  grandson,  who  used  to  get  on  the  chair  be- 
hind him,  and  pull  the  silver  hairs  out,  ten  years  ago.  If  he  is  bald 
it  top,  the  hair-dresser,  hovering  and  breathing  about  him  like  a 
second  youth,  takes  care  to  give  the  bald  place  as  much  powder  Jis 
the  covered;  in  order  that  he  may  convey  to  the  sensorium  within  a 
pleasing  indistinctness  of  idea  respecting  the  exact  limits  of  skin  and 
hair.  He  is  very  clean  and  neat;  and  in  warm  weather,  is  proud  of 
opening  his  waistcoat  half  way  down,  and  letting  so  much  of  his  frill 
b'e  Seen;  in  order  to  shew' his  hardiness  as  well  as  taste.  His  watch 
and  shiit-buttons  are  of  the  best ;  and  he  does  not  care  if  he  has  two 
rings  on  a  finger.  If  his  watch  ever  failed  him  at  the  club  or  coffee- 
house, he  would  take  a  walk  every  day  to  the  nearest  clock  of  good 
character,  purely  to  keep  it  right.  He  has  a  cane  at  home,  but  sel- 
doih  uses  it,  on  finding  it  out  of  fashion  with  his  elderly  juniors.  He 
has  a  small  cocked  hat  for  gala  days,  which  he  lifts  higher  from  his 
head  than  the  round  one,  when  made  a  bow  to.  In  his  pockets  are 
two  handkerchiefs  (one  for  the  neck  at  night-time),  his  spectacles, 
and  h  s  pocket-book.  The  pocket-book,  among  other  things,  con- 
tains a  receipt  for  a  cough,  and  some  verses  cut  out  of  an  odd  sheet 
of  an  old  magazine,  on  the  lovely  Duchess  of  A.,  beginning — 

When  beauteous  Mira  walks  the  plain. 

He  intends  this  for  a  common-place  book  which  he  keej)s,  consisting 
of  passages  in  verse  and  prose  cut  out  of  newspapers  and  magazines, 
and  pasted  in  columns]  some  of  them  rather  gay.  His  principal 
other  books  are  Shakspeare's  Plays  and  Milton's  Paradise  Lost  j  the 


130  THE  INDICATOR. 

Spectator,  the  History  of  England  j  the  works  of  Lady  M.  W.  Mon- 
tague, Pope,  and  Churchill;  Middleton's  Geography,  the  Gentleman's 
Magazine;  Sir  John  Sinclair  on  Longevity;  several  plays  with  por- 
traits in  character;  Account  of  Elizabeth  Canning,  Memoirs  of  George 
Ann  Bellamy,  Poetical  Amusements  at  Bath-Easton,  Blair's  Works, 
Elegant  Extracts ;  Junius  as  originally  published ;  a  few  pamphlets 
on  the  American  War  and  Lord  George  Gordon,  &c.  and  one  on  the 
French  Revolution.  In  his  sitting  rooms  are  some  engravings  from 
Hogarth  and  Sir  Joshua;  an  engraved  portrait  of  the  Marquis  of 
Granby;  ditto  of  M.  le  Comte  de  Grasse  surrendering  to  Admiral 
Rodney ;  a  humourous  piece  after  Penny  j  and  a  portrait  of  himself, 
painted  by  Sir  Joshua.  His  wife's  portrait  is  in  his  chamber,  looking 
upon  his  bed.  She  is  a  little  girl,  stepping  forward  with  a  smile  and 
a  pbinted  toe,  as  if  going  to  dance.     He  lost  her  when  she  was  sixty. 

The  Old  Gentleman  is  an  early  riser,  because  he  intends  to  live  at 
least  twenty  years  longer.  He  continues  to  take  tea  for  breakfast, 
in  spite  of  what  is  said  against  it's  nervous  effects ;  having  been  sa- 
tisfied on  that  point  some  years  ago  by  Dr.  Johnson's  criticism  on 
Hanway,  and  a  great  liking  for  tea  previously.  His  china  cups  and 
Queers  have  been  broken  since  his  wife's  death,  aU  but  one,  which 
is  reli^ously  kept  for  his  use.  He  passes  his  morning  in  walking  or 
riding,  looking  in  at  auctions,  looking  after  his  India  bonds  or  some 
such  money  securities,  furthering  some  subscription  set  on  foot  by 
his  excellent  friend  Sir  John,  or  cheapening  a  new  old  print  for  his 
portfolio.  He  also  hears  of  the  newspapers ;  not  caring  to  see  them 
tin  after  dinner  at  the  cofiee-house.  tie  may  also  cheapen  a  fish  or 
so  J  the  fishmonger  soliciting  his  doubting  eye  as  he  passes,  with  a 
profound  bow  of  recognition.     He  eats  a  pear  before  dinner. 

His  dinner  at  the  coffee-house  is  served  up  to  him  at  the  accus- 
tomed hour,  in  the  old  accustomed  way,  and  by  the  accustomed 
waiter.  If  William  did  not  bring  it,  the  fish  would  be  sure  to  be  stale, 
and  the  flesh  new.  He  eats  no  tart ;  or  if  he  ventures  on  a  little, 
takes  cheese  with  it.  You  might  as  soon  attempt  to  persuade  him 
out  of  his  senses,  as  that  cheese  is  not  good  for  digestion.  He  takes 
port ;  and  if  he  has  drank  more  than  usual,  and  in  a  more  private 
place,  maybe  induced  by  some  respectful  enquiries  respecting  the 
old  style  of  music,  to  sing  a  song  composed  by  Mr.  Oswald  or  Mr. 
Lampe,  such  as — 

Chloe,  by  that  borrowed  kiss, 

pr 

Come,  gentle  god  of  soft  repose  ; 

or  higi  wife's  feivourite  ballad  beginning — 

At  Upton  on  the  Hill 
There  lived  a  happy  pair. 

Of  course^  no  sueh  exploit  can  take  place  in  the  coffee-room }  but  he 
will  canvass  the  theory  of  that  matter  there  with  you,  or  discuss  the 
weather,  or  the  markets,  or  the  theatres,  or  the  merits  of  ''  my  lord 


THE  INDICATOR.  mi 

North"  or  '^  my  lord  Rockingham ;"  for  he  rarely  says  simply,  lord  j 
it  is  generally  "my  lord,"  trippingly  and  genteelly  off  the  tongue* 
If  alone  after  dinner,  his  great  delight  is  the  newspaper;  which  he 
prepares  to  read  by  wiping  his  spectacles,  carefully  adjusting  them 
on  his  eyes,  and  drawing  the  candle  close  to  him,  so  as  to  stand  side-^ 
ways  betwixt  his  ocular  aim  and  the  small  type.  He  then  holds  the 
paper  at  arms  length,  and  dropping  his  eyelids  half  down  and  his 
moutli  half  open,  takes  cognizance  of  the  day's  information.  If  he 
leaves  off,  it  is  only  when  the  door  is  opened  by  a  new  comer,  or 
when  he  suspects  somebody  is  over-anxious  to  get  the  paper  out  of 
his  han;).  On  these  occasions,  he  gives  an  important  hem!  or  so 3 
and  resumes 

In  the  evening,  our  Old  Gentleman  is  fond  of  going  to  the  theatre, 
or  of  having  a  game  of  cards.  If  he  enjoys  the  latter  at  his  own 
house  or  lodgings,  he  likes  to  play  with  some  friends  whom  he  has 
known  for  many  years  j  but  an  elderly  stranger  may  be  introduced, 
if  quiet  and  scientific;  and  the  privilege  is  extended  to  younger  men 
of  letters ;  who,  if  ill  players,  are  good  losers.  Not  that  he  is  a  miser j 
but  to  win  money  at  cards  is  like  proving  his  victory  by  gettipg 
the  ba;:;;age ;  and  to  win  of  a  younger  man  is  a  substitute  for  his 
not  being  able  to  beat  hina  at  rackets.  He  breaks  up  early,  whether 
at  home  or  abroad. 

At  the  theatre,  he  likes  a  front  row  in  the  pit.  He  comes  early, 
if  he  can  do  so  without  getting  into  a  squeeze,  and  sits  patiently 
waiting  for  the  drawing  up  of  the  curtain,  with  his  hands  placidly 
lying  one  over  the  other  on  the  top  of  his  stick.  He  generously  ad- 
mires some  of  t!ie  best  performers,  but  thinks  them  far  inferior  to 
Grarrick,  Woodward,  and  Clive.  ,  During  splendid  scenes,  he  is 
anxious  that  the  little  boy  should  see., 

He  has  been  induced  to  look  in  at  Vauxhall  again,  but  likes  it  still 
less  than  he  did  years  back,  and  cannot  bear  it  in  comparison  with 
Ranelagh.  He  thinks  every  thing  looks  poor,  flaring,  and  jaded. 
''  Ah !"  says  he,  with  a  sort  of  triumphant  sigh,  "  Ranelagh  was  a 
noble  place  !  Such  taste,  such  elegaiice,  such  beauty !  There  was  the 
Duchess  of  A.  the  finest  woman  in  England,  Sir ;  and  Mrs.  L.,  a 
mighty  fine  creature ;  and  Lady  Susan  what's  h6r  name,  that  had 
that  unfortunate  affair  with  Sir  Charlfes.  $ir,  they  came  swimming 
by  you  like  the  swans." 

The  Old  Gentleman  is  A^ery  particular  in  having  his  slippers  ready 
for  him  at  the  fire,  when  he  comes  home.  He  is  also  extremrfy 
choice  in  his  snuff,  and  delights  to  get  a  fresh  box-full  in  Tavistock- 
street,  in  his  way  to  the  theatre.  His  box  is  a  curiosity  from'  India. 
He  calls  favourite  young  ladies  by  their  Christian  names,  however 
slightly  acquainted  with  them  ;  and  has  a  privilege  also  of  saluting 
all  brides,  mothers,  and  indeed  every  species  of  lady  on  the  least 
holiday  occasion.  If  the  husband  for  instance  has  met  with  a  piece 
of  luck,  he  instantly  moves  forward,  and  gravely  kisses  the  wife  on 
the  cheek.  The  wife  then  says,  ''My  niece.  Sir,  hdsn  the  eguiitryj" 


132  THE  INDICATOR. 

and  he  kisses  the  niece.  The  niece,  seeing  her  cousin  biting  her  lips 
at  the  joke,  says,  "  My  cousin  Harriet,  Sir  3"  and  he  kisses  the 
cousin.  He  never  recollects  sucK  weather,  except  during  the  Great 
Frost,  or  when  he  rode  down  with  Jack  Skrimshire  to  Newmarket. 
He  grows  young  ag-ain  in  his  little  grand-children,  especially  the  one 
which  he  thinks  most  like  himself  5  which  is  the  handsomest.  Yet 
he  likes  best  perhaps  the  one  most  resembling  his  wife ;  and  will  sit 
with  him  on  his  lap,  holding  his  hand  in  silence,  for  a  quarter  of  an 
hour  together.  He  plays  most  tricks  with  the  former,  and  makes 
kim  sneeze.  He  asks  little  boys  in  general  who  was  the  father  of 
Zebedee's  children.  If  his  grandsons  are  at  school,  he  often  goes  to 
see  them  ;  and  makes  them  blush  by  telling  the  master  or  the  upper- 
scholars,  that  they  are  fine  boys,  and  of  a  precocious  genius.  He  is 
much  struck  when  an  old  acquaintance  dies,  but  adds  that  he  lived 
too  fast ;  and  that  poor  Bob  was  a  sad  dog  in  his  youth  j  "  a  very  sad 
dog.  Sir,  mightily  set  upon  a  short  life  and  a  merry  one." 

When  he  gets  very  old  indeed,  he  will  sit  for  whole  evenings,  and 
say  little  or  nothing  5  but  informs  you,  that  there  is  Mrs.  Jones  (the 
housekeeper), — "  She'll  talk." 


DOLPHINS. 

Our  old  book-friend  the  Dolphin  used  to  be  confounded  with  the 
porpus ;  but  modern  writers  seem  to  concur  in  making  a  distinction 
between  them.  We  remember  being  much  mortified  at  this  sepa- 
■  Tation ;  for  having,  in  our  childhood,  been  shewn  something  dimly 
'  rolling  in  the  sea,  while  standing  on  the  coast  at  twilight,  and  told 
with  much  whispering  solemnity  that  it  was  a  porpus,  we  had  after- 
wards learnt  to  identify  it  with  the  dolphin,  and  thought  we  had  seen 
the  romantic  fish  on  whom  Arion  rode  playing  his  harp. 

The  dolphin  and  porpus  however  have  so  many  characters  in  com- 
mon, such  as  shape,  motion,  general  colour,  the  absence  of  gills,  &c. 
that  fi'om  a  passage  in  Sandys,  who  was  a  traveller  as  well  as  a  poet, 
we  have  some  hopes  the  distinction  may  turn  out  to  be  unfounded, 
or  only  a  variety  owing  to  climate.  "  The  porpus,"  he  says,  in  his 
Commentary  upon  Ovid,  (p.  64.)  "  is  out  of  doubt  our  true  Dolphin,- 
wherein  I  am  not  only  conHrmed  by  the  authoritie  of  Scaliger.  For 
those  that  are  called  Dolphins  by  our  East  and  West-Indian  seamen 
(who  likely  give  known  names  to  things  which  they  know  not)  are 
fishes  whereof  I  have  seen  many,  which  glitter  in  the  water  with  all 
varietie  of  admirable  colours  3  and  are  hardly  so  bigge  as  our  salmon- 
trouts ;  too  little  by  farre  to  beare  those  burthens  wherewith  almost 
all  ancient  authors  doe  charge  them  3  besides  none  of  these  were  ever 
scene  in  the  Mediterranean  sea,  the  scene  of  those  stories."  Now 
Falconer,  it  is  true,  in  his  Shipwreck,  Canto  3,  speaks  of  Dolphins  in 
the  Mediterranean  sea,  as  beaming  "^  refulgent  rays  3"  and  describes 
them,  in  particular,  as  shifting  into  a  variety  of  most  brilliant  colours. 


THE  INDICATOR.  133 

when  dying.  But  this  may  only  prove,  that  Sandys  was  wrong  in 
excluding  the  fish  in  question  from  the  Mediterranean  5  and  it  is 
remarkable  that  Falconer,  notwithstanding  his  own  poetical  tenden- 
cies, does  not  take  occasion  of  the  appearance  of  what  he  calls  Dol- 
phins, to  make  the  least  allusion  to  ancient  stories,  nor  speaks  of 
their  tumbling,  nor  otherwise  seems  to  have  recognized  in  them  his 
oM  poetical  friends.  The  writers  too,  who  distinguish  the  Dolphin 
from  the  porpus,  make  no  mention  of  these  briliant  colours  5  but  de- 
scribe both  as  pretty  much  alike  in  colour,'  which  is  of  a  dusky  blue 
in  the  one,  and  of  a  dark  blue  or  glossy  black  in  the  other.  The  word 
porpus  means  originally  the  same  as  Dolphin.  It  is  a  corruption  of 
porcus  piscis,  or  the  hog  fish ;  so  called  from  the  curve  of  it's  back, 
as  it  tumbles  in  and  out  of  the  water,  for  it  is  naturally  straight. 
The  root  of  the  Greek  word  Delphin  is  the  same  as  that  of  the  word 
for  a  hog,  Delphax. 

It  is  easy  to  see  how  the  Dolphin  became  such  a  favourite  with 
antiquity.  It  was  owing  to  his  frequency  in  the  Greek  seas,  the  vi- 
v^ity  of  his  motions,  his  gregariousness,  the  pi'esages  which  he  brings 
respecting  the  Weather,  and  the  familiarity  with  which  he  approaches 
the  shore.  He  was  the  fish  friendly  to  man,  as  the  horse  was  among 
beasts,  and  the  swallow  among  birds ;  or  as  the  dog  and  the  red- 
breast are  with  us.  One  of  the  earliest  and  most  beautiful  fictions  is 
a  story  told  in  Homer's  Hymn  to  Bacchus  of  the  transformation  of  a 
crew  of  pirates  into  Dolphins.  It  was  a  fine  lesson  of  good  treat- 
ment to  strangers  in  those  times,  and  perhaps  written  by  the  poet 
to  serve  travellers  like  himself,  who  had  occasion  to  throw  them- 
selves on  the  generosity  of  the  masters  of  vessels.  Bacchus  is  sitting 
with  his  black  locks  and  white  shoulders  by  the  sea-shore,  in  appear- 
ance like  a  young  mortal.  Some  pirates  coming  towards  the  shore, 
and  seeing  the  splendour  of  the  purple  cloak  that  wraps  him  round, 
take  him  for  a  young  prince,  and  agree  to  kidnap  him.  They  do  so, 
take  him  on  board,  and  put  him  in  chains.  He  extends  his  hands, 
and  breaks  the  chains  asunder  like  thread,  but  still  remains  quietly 
sitting.  The  piety  of  the  helmsman  is  roused  at  this  piece  of  super- 
natural strength,  and  calling  the  others  aside,  he  earnestly  exhorts 
them  to  let  the  stranger  go.  But  the  captain  ridicules  his  fears j 
and  they  persist ;  when  all  of  a  sudden,  a  gush  of  wine  comes  pouring 
over  the  deck ;  the  oars  of  the  rowers  are  hampered  with  garlands  ; 
and  a  vine  runs  up  the  mast  and  throws  out  it's  arms  full  of  grapes 
over  the  top.  The  pirates  turn  pale,  and  cast  their  eyes  upon  the 
divine  stranger,  who  now  starts  up,  and  glares  at  them  from  under 
the  hatches  in  the  shape  of  a  lion.  He  then  turns  himself  into  a 
bear  and  other  frightful  figures,  and  ramping  about  the  vessel,  the 
pirates,  all  but  the  helmsman,  jump  over  board,  and  are  changed  as 
they  leap  into  Dolphins.  When  the  galley  is  cleared,  the  god  re- 
sumes his  own  shape,  and  tells  the  pilot  to  be  of  good  cheer,  for  he 
is  Bacchus,  the  roaring  god  of  wine ;  and  that  day  shall  be  a  happy 
one  for  him  and  his.  The  same  story  has  been  told,  but  in  a  much 
inferior  taste,  by  Ovid.     Nonnus,  in  his  luxuriant  poetical  history  of 


134  THE  INDICATOR. 

the  god,  (Dionysiaca.  B.  45)  describes  the  pirates  as  visited  with  the 
hallucination  of  mind,  called  a  calenture,  in  which  people  at  sea 
fancy  that  they  are  among  meadows,  and  other  rural  scenery,  and 
"  babble  of  green  fields."  There  was  a  picture  in  mosaic,  perhaps 
yet  to  be  seen,  in  the  church  of  St  Agnes  at  Rome,  formerly  a  tem- 
ple of  Bacchus,  in  which  the  story  of  the  transformation  of  the  pirates 
was  represented.  The  more  famous  frieze  upon  the  same  subject  on 
the  building  at  Athens,  called  the  Lantern  of  Demosthenes,  has  been 
well  known  to  our  countrymen  through  the  medium  of  Stuart's  An- 
tiquities of  that  city.  Milton  beautifully  fpllows  up  Homer's  story 
by  making  Bacchus  sail  onward,  "  as  the  winds  listed,"  till  he  fell 
upon  Circe's  island,  where  in  the  joviality  of  his  triumph,  he  begot 
Comus,  the  god  of  delirious  feasting. 

-Bacchus,  that  first  from  out  the  purple  grape, 
Crushed  the  sweet  poison  of  misused  wine. 
After  the  Tuscan  mariners  transformed. 
Coasting  the  Tyrrhene  shore,  as  the  winds  listed. 
On  Circe's  island  fell. 

This  Nymph,  that  ^azed  upon  his  clustering  locks, 
With  ivy  berries  wreathed,  and  his  blithe  youth, 
Had  by  him,  ere  he  parted  thence,  a  SOD, 
Much  like  his  father,  but  his  mother  more, 
Whom  therefore  she  brought  up,  and  Comiis  named. 

The  two  Plinys  have  each  a  story  of  a  Dolphin.  The  Elder 
says,  upon  the  authority  of  three  grave  writers*  Mecaenas  among 
them,  that  there  was  a  boy,  who  by  alluring  a  Dolphin  with  bread, 
at  last  became  so  intimate  with  him,  that  he  would  ride  to  school  to 
and  fro  on  his  back  from  Baise  to  Puteoli.  The  boy  died,  and  the 
fish  jnning  after  him,  died  also,  and  was  buried  in  the  same  tomb. 
The  Younger  Pliny  gives  an  account  of  another  at  Hippo  in  Africa, 
where  a  boy  venturing  to  swim  farther  out  than  his  companions,  was 
met  by  a  Dolphin,  who  after  playing  about  him  a  little,  slipped  under 
him,  and  taking  him  on  his  back,  carried  him  out  still  farther, 
to  the  great  terror  of  the  young  delphinestrian.  Luckily  however, 
he  soon  returned  to  shore,  and  landed  his  rider  safely.  The  next 
day  the  shore  was  crowded  with  people,  waiting  to  see  if  the  Dolphin 
would  appear  again ;  and  the  boys  went  as  usual  into  the  water.  The 
fish  did  reappear,  and  came  among  the  younkers,  who  swam  back 
as  fast  as  they  could.  It  then  played  all  sorts  of  inviting  gambols 
about  the  coast,  till  the  people,  ashamed  of  their  timidity,  gradually 
got  nearer,  and  at  length  touched  and  stroaked  it.  The  boy  then, 
losing  his  fear  like  the  rest,  and  vindicating  his  first  privilege,  swam 
by  his  side,  and  at  length  leaped  upon  his  back,  when  the  Dolphin 
carried  him  about  as  before,  and  landed  him  as  safely.  Unfortunately, 
the  deputy-governor  of  the  province  took  it  into  his  head,  that  the 
good-]Sai£ured  fish  must  be  a  godj  and  seizing  his  opportunity,  when 
the  creature  had  got  upon  shore,  poured  some  precious  ointment 
upon  it.  The  ointment  happened  not  to  be  to  the  Dolphin's  taste: 
it  absented  itself  fpr,  some  days  ^  and  when  it  returned  appeared  sick 
and  feeble.  However,  it  recovered  it's  spirits  j  but  the  novelty  by  this 


THE  INDICATOR.  135 

time  had  drawn  such  a  concourse  of  high  visitors  to  the  place,  whom 
it  was  the  little  town's  business  to  entertain  gratis,  that  it  is  sup- 
posed the  poor  fish  was  secretly  killed,  to  save  further  expenses. 
Alexander  the  Great  is  said  to  have  been  so  struck  with  the  attach- 
ment evinced  by  a  Dolphin  to  a  youth,  that  he  made  the  latter  a 
priest  of  Neptune. 

It  is  not  easy  to  pronounce  how  much  of  truth  there  may  be  in 
stories  of  this  nature.  Knowledge,  so  often  deceived  by  supeistition, 
id  incfined  to  reject  the  whole  of  them  at  once ;  but  on  second 
thoughts,  it  remembers  how  often  it  has  been  misled  by  incrcd  ility 
alsoj  and  leaves  the  more  peremptory  judgment  to  those  whoui  Uss 
information  has  I'endered  less  diffident.  The  exaggerations  wn'.ch 
there  may  be  in  the  stories  of  Dolphins,  are  probably  owing  to  the  cele- . 
brated  fable  of  Arion,  which  seems  to  have  been  written  with  the  same 
view  as  that  of  Bacchus  and  the  Pirates.  Arion  was  a  lyric  poet  of 
Lesbos,  and  went  to  live  with  Periander,  king  of  Corinth ;  from 
which  place  he  visited  Italy,  where  his  talents  procured  him  great 
wealth.  On  taking  ship  to  return  to  Corinth,  the  sailors  lesolved  to 
murder  him  for  his  riches.  He  begged  that  they  would  at  least  allow 
him  to  make  a  swan-like  end  befitting  his  divine  profession,  and  at 
the  same  time  gave  them  some  money ;  hoping  that  the  gift,  tbllowed 
by  the  song,  would  soften  their  hearts.  They  consented  to  hear  his 
harj)  and  his  poetry,  but  told  him  at  the  same  time  that  t,,ey  were 
fesolved  he  should  either  be  thrown  into  the  sea,  or  kill  himself  and  so 
obtain  a  sepulchre  ashore.  Resolving  however  to  try  what  his  ar(  could 
da,  he  put  his  purple  robe  over  his  shoulders,  and  his  musician's  crown 
on  his  head ;  and  ta:king  his  lyre  upon  his  knee,  sang  to  it  a  pathetic 
song.  But  finding,  as  he  proceeded,  that  they  were  bent  on  their 
purpose,  he  suddenly  changed  his  strain,  and  sang  the  cruel  Orthian 
Law,  by  which  boys  were  scourged  to  death  at  the  altar  of  Diana. 
Having  finished  this  hymn  of  despair,  he  cast  himself,  all  robed 
and  crowned  as  he  was,  into  the  sea ;  and  the  sailors  puisued  their 
voyage  to  Corinth.  A  little  time  afterwards,  they  were  .sent  for 
to  court,  and  asked  news  of  Arion  by  the  king.  They  said  rhey  had 
landed  him  safely  in  Italy,  and  taken  leave  of  him  at  'I'lirentum- 
Upon  this,  a  door  opens,  and  they  are  struck  dumb  at  beholding 
Arion  himself,  whom  they  believed  dead,  enter  the  room,  dressed 
exactly  as  he  was,  when  he  leaped  into  the  sea.  Their  guilt  was  not 
to  be  disputed;  and  they  were  put  to  death.  As  to  Arion's  retui'n, 
it  was  owing  to  a  dolphin,  who  having  been  attracted  with  others  by 
the  music  of  his  harp,  had  taken  him  upon  his  back,  and.  borne  him 
safely  after  the  gUUty  ship  ;  the  poet  playing  out  of  gi-atitude,  as  he 
went, 

Spenser  introduces  Arion  most  beautifully,  in  all  his  lyrical  pomp, 
in  the  marriage  of  the  Thames  and  Medway.  He  goes  before  the 
bride,  smoothing  onwards  vrith  the  sound  of  his  harp,  like  the  very 
progress  of  the  water. 

Thea  was  there  beard  a  most  celestiall  sound . 
Of  dainty  musicke,  vrhich  tiid  next  ensue 


136  THE  INDICATOR. 

Before  the  Spouse.    That  was  Arion  crowned: 
Who,  playing  on  his  harp,  unto  him  drew 
The  eares  and  hearts  of  all  that  goodly  crew ; 
That  even  yet  the  Dolphin,  which  him  bore 
Through  tlie  Mge&n  seas  from  pirates'  view, 
Stood  still  by  him  astonished  at  his  lore  ; 
And  all  the  raging  seas  for  joy  forgot  to  roar. 

So  went  he,  playing  on  the  watery  plain. 

Perhaps  in  no  one  particular  thing  or  image,  have  some  great 
poets  shewn  the  different  characters  of  their  genius  more  than  in  the 
use  of  the  Dolphin.  Spenser,  who  of  all  his  tribe  lived  in  a  poetical 
world,  and  saw  things  as  clearly  there  as  in  a  real  one,  has  never 
shewn  this  nicety  of  realization  more  than  in  the  following  passage. 
He  speaks  of  his  Dolphins  with  as  familiar  a  detail,  as  if  they  were 
horses  waiting  at  a  door  with  an  equipage. 

A  team  of  Dolphins  ranged  in  array 
Drew  the  smooth  charett  of  sad  Cymoenl. 
They  were  all  taught  by  Triton  to  obey 
To  the  long  reins  at  her  commandement : 
As  swift  as  swallows  on  the  waves  they  went, 
That  their  broad  flaggy  finnes  no  foam  did  reare, 
Ne  bubbling  roundell  they  behind  them  sent. 
The  rest  of  other  fishes  drawen  were, 
Which  with  their  finny  oares  the  swelling  sea  did  sheare. 

Soon  as  they  been  arrived  upon  the  brim 

Of  the  Rich  Strand,  their  charets  they  forlore ; 

And  let  their  teamed  fishes  softly  swim 

Along  the  margent  of  the  foamy  shore. 

Lest  they  their  finnes  should  bruise,  and  surbeat  sore 

Their  tender  feete  upon  the  stony  ground. 

There  are  a  couple  of  Dolphins  like  these,  in  Raphael's  Galatea. 
Dante,  with  his  tendency  to  see  things  in  a  dreary  point  of  view, 
has  given  an  illustration  of  the  agonies  of  some  of  the  damned  in  his 
Inferno,  at  once  new,  fine,  and  horrible.  It  is  in  the  22nd  book, 
''  Come  i  delfini,"  &c.  He  says  that  some  wretches,  swimming  in  one 
of  the  gulphs  of  hell,  shot  out  their  backs  occasionally,  like  Dolphifts, 
above  the  pitchy  liquid,  in  order  to  snatch  a  respite  from  torment ; 
but  darted  them  back  again  like  lightning.  The  devils  would  prong 
the  mas  they  rose.  Strange  fancies  for  maintaining  the  benevolence 
of  religion ! 

Hear  Shakspeare,  always  at  once  the  noble  and  the  good-natured. 
We  forget  of  what  great  character  he  is  speaking ;  but  never  was  an 
image  that  more  singularly  yet  completely  united  superiwity  and 
playfulness. 

His  delights 
Were  dolphin-like ;  and  shewed  themselves  above 
The  element  he  lived  in. 


Orders  received  by  the  Booksellers,  by  the  Newsmen,  and  by  the  Publisher,  Joseph  AppLivaw), 

No.  19,  Catherine-street,  Strand.— Price  2d. 

Printed  by  C.  H.  ReYnell,  No.  45,  Broad-street,  Golden-square,  London. 


THE    INDICATOR. 


There  he  arriving  round  about  doth  flie. 
And  takes  survey  witti  busie,  curious  eye: 
Now  this,  now  that,  he  tasteth  tenderly. 

Spenser. 


No.  XVIII.— WEDNESDAY,   FEBRUARY  9tli,  1820. 


NAMES. 

The  object  of  this  article  is  to  call  to  mind  the  significations  of  the 
Christian  names  most  in  use  with  us ;  to  I'ecommend  ttie  revival  of 
others  J  to  shew  who  has  given  any  of  them  a  grace  or  a  lustre  j  and 
to  suggest  the  advz^ntage  of  paying  attention  to  this  apparently  tri- 
fling matter. 

We  think  it  a  greater  objection  than  appears  at  first  sight,  to  our 
names  in  general,  that  they  are  unmeaning  sounds  by  which  indivi- 
duals are  merely  known.  A  man  of  the  name  of  George  or  Thomas 
might  as  well,  to  all  understood  purposes,  be  called  Spoon  or  Hat- 
band. Names  are  usually  given  after  some  family  relation ;  and 
doubtless  this  is  often  a  good  and  social  thing ;  but  as  it  is  done  in 
general  to  please  the  elder  people,  and  not  the  younger,  who  may 
grow  up  without  any  very  fond  recollections  of  them,  or  perhaps 
scarcely  remember  them  at  all,  the  least  that  can  be  done  for  the 
possessors  is  to  give  them  an  additional  Christian  name ;  by  which 
they  may  be  called,  if  they  prefer  it!,  when  they  arrive  to  maturity. ; 
The  next  principle,  upon  which  children  are  named,  is  that  of  the 
sound  or  beauty  of  the  namej  and  this  we  think  too  much  under- 
valued. People  in  humble  life,  it  is  true,  are  sometimes  justly  laughed 
at  for  giving  their  children  fine  names :  but  it  is  only  when  they  do 
so  otit  of  an  obvious  and  unmeaning  vanity.  It  is  as  well  certainly 
not  to  call  a  parcel  of  idle  and  ragged  young  rogues  by  the  titles  of 
Augustus,  Orlando,  and  Theodore:  nor  does  it  sound  very  fitting 
and  heroical  to  hear  a  father  cry  out  pompously  to  his  little  bOy,  as 
we  did  once, — "  You,  Sir,  there, — Maximilian, — come  out  of  the 
gutter."  But  if  elegant  names,  not  pompous,  are  given  in  humble 
life  by  sensible  parehts,  they  may  influence  the  holders  afterwards 
to  very  good  purpose.  They  may  assist  in  producing  an  Unvulgar  ' 
spirit;  properly  so  called  j  one  that  seeshow  vulgarity  and' the  reverse 
of  it  may  be  produced  by  circumstances,  and  are  not  confined  to  this  " 
o^  that  rank  in  lifej' — one  that  is  just  conscious  enough  of  something 
graceful  and  pieculiar,  to  feel  that  it  has  a  kind  of  title  upon  it  with- 
out any  actual  privileges,  and  that  it  must  resort  to  a  sentiment  to 
maintain  and  warrant  it.     To  give  a  child  the  name  of  a  favourite 


138  THE  INDICATOR. 

hero  or  heroine  is  also  a  good  thing.  A  boy,  christened  after  Alfred 
the  Great,  by  a  father  who  really  feels  the  merits  of  that  wonderful 
man,  is  likely,  if  he  inherits  any  thing  of  his  father's  sense,  to  turn 
the  name  into  a  perpetual  memorandum  of  worthiness.  Care  how- 
ever must  be  taken  not  to  give  great  professional  names, — as  that  of 
Michael  Angelo  to  a  boy  intended  for  an  artist,  or  Shakspeare  to  one 
that  is  meant  to  be  literary.  If  the  youth  does  not  turn  out  clever,  his 
name  becomes  a  burlesque ;  and  if  he  should  be  otherwise,  the  com- 
parison will  still  be  awkward.  The  notion  that  a  name  is  not  to 
be  changed  without  legal  sanction,  and  the  habit  of  acquiescing  in  a 
name  disagreeable  to  the  possessor,  appear  to  us  to  be  equally  erro- 
neous. Had  a  name  been  given  us  of  this  sort,  we  should  have 
made  no  scruple  to  take  another,  just  as  an  actor  changes  his  sur- 
name. We  sometimes  think  it  v/ould  be  an  excellent  custom,  if 
people,  without  forsaking  the  name^  that  might  have  pleasant  family 
associations  with  them,  wei'e  to  give  themselves  new  ones  when  tfiey 
arrived  at  years  of  discretion,  or  at  whatever  subsequent  time  they 
might  think  it  proper  to  wait  for.  They  might  make  it  one  of  the 
best  holidays  in  their  life,  and  assume  the  name  in  the  same  spirit 
they  would  assume  a  mof,to  or  device,  for  their  conduct  in  future  to 
abide  by.     They  would  hardly  chuse  a  mean  or  a  useless  one. 

A  name,  to  be  complete,  and  serve  it's  just  purposes,  should  ei- 
ther have  a  good  and  understood  meaning,  or  an  equally  good  and 
understood  association.  It  should  also  be  good  to  the  ear  if  possi- 
ble ;  but  at  all  events,  good  to  the  understanding  and  the  feelings. 
The  names  of  our  Saxon  ancestors  were  compounded,  like  those  of 
the  ancients,  of  words  in  ordinary  use ;  so  that  they  were  not  mere 
sounds,  as  they  are  now.  Thus  Edmund  or  Eadmund  signified  Happy 
Peace  J  Edward  was  Happy  Warden  or  Keeper  3  Leofwin  (Love-win) 
answered  to  the  Greek  name  Erasmus  3  Horsa  was  a  Horseman,  like 
Hippias  or  Hipparchus  ;  and  we  hereby  inform  all  our  readers  of  the 
name  of  Heniy  that  they  are  neither  more  nor  less  than  so  many 
Plutarchs,  both  the  words  signifying  Rich  Lord.  But  the  remainder 
of  what  we  intended  to  say  on  those  matters  will  be  gathered  from 
the  following  nomenclature.  We  put  the  male  and  female  names 
together,  to  avoid  the  luigallant  trouble  of  making  out  two  separate 
lists. 

A&ron,  Hebrew.     A  Mountain.     Haroun  al  Raschid. 

Abel,  Heb.  Camden  says  Just  5  some  say  Vanity,  which  is  curious. 
We  know  nothing  of  Hebrew,  and  must  leave  the  point  to  others. 

Abigael,  Heb.  The  Father's  Joy.  The  Jewish  names  are  generally 
very  expressive,  and  in  pleasant  taste;  but  for  obvious  reasons,  they 
have  acquired  either  a  great  gravity  in  modern  use,  or  something  the 
reverse.  A  female  servant  is  nicknamed  an  Abigael,  perhaps  after 
Nabal's  wife,  who  was  so  suomissive  to  David. 

Abraham,  Heb.  The  Father  of  Many.  This  is  the  same  word  as 
Patriarch  in  Greek.     It  was  the  Qhristian  name  of  Cowley. 

Adam,  Heb.  Red  Earth.  These  scripture  names  of  men  are  more 
prevjtlent  among  the  Scotch  than  th%  English,  and  have  given  rise  to 


THE  INDICATOR.  139 

some  curious  inapplicabilities,  as  Adam  Smith  and  David  Hiime,  two 
infidel  philosopliers.  On  the  continent,  almost  all  Christian  names 
came  from  the  Virgin  or  the  Saints,  and  at  last  produced  similar 
misnomers ;  as  Denys  Diderot,  Peter  Bayle,  Francis  Maiy  Arouet  de 
Voltaire, — after  St.  Francis  and  the  Virgin:  for  nothing  was  more 
common  among  the  Catholics  than  to  give  her  name  to  men  as  well 
as  women.  The  celebrated  constable  Montmorency  was  called  Anne, 
after  the  scriptural  saint. 

Adelaide,  German.     We  believe  it  means  Princely. 

Adolphusj  Latinized  from  the  Saxon  Adolph  or  Eadulph.  Happy" 
Help. 

Agatha,  Greek.     Good. 

Agnes,  Gr.  Chaste.  It  was  an  unlucky  name  for  the  beautiful 
patriotic  mistress  of  Charles  the  Seventh,  Agnes  Sorel;  who  was  ne- 
vertheless a  noble  creature. 

Alan,  Sdavonian.  A  Hound;  or  as  Camden  thinks,  a  British  or 
Welsh  corruption  of  JEIianus,  Sun-bright.  Alain  Renfe  le  Sage,  the 
French  novelist.  Alan  Chartier,  whose  mouth  was  kissed  for  his 
poetry,  as  he  lay  asleep,  by  Queen  Margaret  of  Navarre. 

Albert,  Saxon.  All  Bright.  Borne  by  Albert  Durer,  the  celebrated 
old  artist  J   and  Albertus  Magnus,  the  philosopher. 

Alexander,  Gr.  A  Helper  of  Men.  Alexander  the  Great.  Scan- 
derbeg,  or  Lord  Alexander,  the  nanoe  given  to  the  celebrated  Prmce 
of  Epirus,  John  Castriot.     Alexander  Pope. 

Alfred,  Sax.    All  Peace.     Alfred  the  Great. 

Algernon,  (Query?)     Algernon  Sydney. 

Alicia,  Alice,  Adeliz,  Germ.     Noble. 

Alistasia.  We  have  met  but  once  with  this  name,  which  is 
thought  to  be  a  corruption  of  Anastasia.  Otherwise  it  might  be  twisted 
into  an  allusion  to  the  sea,  or  being  born  at  or  near  the  sea. ;  Sea- 
rising  ;  as  Anadyomene,  spoken  of  Venus. 

Almeria ,    female  of  Amery  or  Almericus,  Germ.  ?  Always  Rich. 

Alphonso,  Gothic,  Elfuns.     Our  Help. 

Amadeus,  Amadis,  Amias,  Lat.  A  Lover  of  God ;  same  as  the  Greek 
Theophilus.  It  is  the  name  of  one  of  the  most  celebrated  heroes  of 
chivalry.  A  late  illusti'ious  musician  was  named  John  Chrysostora 
Wolfgang  Amadeus  Mozart. 

Ambrose,  Gr.  Immortal,  from  the  same  adjective  as  the  word 
Ambrosia.  Taken  by  the  early  Christians,  and  borne  by  one  Qf  the 
Inost  celebrated  of  the  Fathers. 

Amelia,  Amie  or  Amy  (Emily  r)  Lat.  Beloved.  The  name  of  Field- 
ing's celebrated  conjugal  heroine. 

Anastasia,  Gr.  Uprising;  an  allusion  to  the  Resurrection.  It 
was  the  name  of  the  celebrated  singer,  and  mistress  of  the  great 
Lord  Peterborough,  Anastasia  Robinson ;  whom  he  afterwards  mar- 
ried. 

Andrew,  Gr.  Manly.  Most  fortunately  given  to  our  patriot,  An- 
drew Marvell.  Andrew  Dacier,  the  commentator.  Andrea  Palladio, 
the  architect, 


UQ  THE  INDICATOR. 

Anne,  Anna,  Hannah,  Nancy  or  Ninon,  Heb.  Gracious  or  Kind. 
See  Joan  and  Jane.  Anne  Killigre\y,  the  young  poetess  whose  me- 
mory was  so  honoured  by  Dryden.  Anne  Dacier,  famous  for  her 
learning.     Ninon  de  I'Enclos,  the  modern  Leontium.     See  Adam. 

Anthony,  Gr.  Flourishing.  Marc  Antony,  the  Triumvir.  Anto- 
nio AHegri,  called  Correggio,  from  his  birth-place,  the  great  painter. 
Anthony  Vandyke,  the  great  portrait  painter.  Anthony  Watteau, 
the  painter  of  elegant  intercourse.  Anthony  Ashley  Cooper,  Lord 
Shaftesbury,  the  philosopher.  Anthony  Francis  Prevot,  the  French 
novelist.     Anthony  Benezet,  an  American  philanthrophist. 

Arabella,  Lat.  A  Fair  Altar.  Arabella  Fermor,  the  heroine  of  the 
Rape  of  the  Lock  under  the  title  of  Belinda. 

Archibald,  Germ.     A  Bold  Observer. 

Arthur,  Gr.  from  the  constellation  Arcturus  or  Great  Bear.  Ac- 
cording to  others,  from  a  British  word  signifying  Mighty.  It  was 
first  rendered  famous  by  the  old  hero  of  British  romance. 

Augustus,  Augusta,  Lat.  Increasing.  Waxing  in  Honour.  Unless 
it  rather  come  from  the  Greek,  and  mean  Splendid,  or  Illustrious. 
It  was  first  given  as  a  name  to  Octavius  Caesar,  and  has  ever  since 
been  common  in  princes'  families. 

Barbara,  Gr.  Foreign. 

Bartholomew,  Heb.  The  son  of  him  who  made  the  waters  to  rise. 
An  evident  allusion  to  the  passage  of  the  Red  Sea. 

Basil,  Gr.     Kingly. 

Beatrice,  Lat.  Happy,  or  Happy-Making.  The  name  of  Dante's 
favourite. 

Benedict,  Benet  or  Bennet,  Lat.  Blessed.  Benedict  Spinoza, 
the  philosopher. 

Benjamin,  Heb.  The  Son  of  the  Right  Hand^  or  the  Son  of 
Days.     Ben  Jonson.     Benjamin  Franklin. 

Bertha,  Germ.     Bright. 

Bertram,  Bertrand.     Bright  or  Clear. 

Blanche,  Fr.     Bianca,  Ital.     White  or  Fair. 

Bridget,  Irish.     Bright. 

Caesar.  Some  say  a  Moorish  word  for  an  Elephant :  others,  a  name 
significant  of  the  operation  called  Caesarian  :  others.  Grey  Eyes ; 
and  others.  Well  Haired,  or  Born  with  Hair.  From  Julius  Caesar  it 
became  an  imperial  family  name,  and  a  title  of  honour. 

Caleb,  Heb.     Hearty. 

Caroline,  the  Latin  female  of  Charles  or  Carolus. 

Catharine,  Gr.     Pure. 

Cecil,  Cecilia,  Cicely,  Lat.  Grey-eyed.  It  has  been  chiefly  used 
after  Cecilia,  the  miibical  Saint. 

Charity,  Gr.  The  Delight  of  Doing  Good ;  Beneficence ;  Love  to 
all  both  in  Thought  and  Deed.  It  originally  comes  from  a  word  sig- 
nifying a  Saluting  Joy ;  and  was  the  same,  among  the  Greeks,  as 
Grace,  and  the  Sentiment  of  Beauty.  The  three  goddesses  whom 
the  Romans  called  Graces,  the  Greeks  called  Charities. 

Charles,  Germ.    Valiant,  Prevailing,  the  same  word  as  the  Valens 


THE  INDICATOR.  141 

of  the  Romans^  or  the  more  modern  Valentine.  Charlemagne^  or 
Charles  the  Great.  Carl  Von  Linne  (Linnaeus)  the  great  naturalist. 
Charles  de  Secondat,  Baron  de  Montesquieu,  the  philosopher.  Charles 
Mordaunt,  Earl  of  Peterborough. 

Charlotte,  the  German  female  of  Charles. 

Christian,  Christiana,  Gr.     A  follower  of  Christ. 

Christopher,  Gr.  Christ's-Bearer.  An  allusion  to  the  patient 
duty  of  Christians ;  but  by  some  brought  from  a  legend  of  a  saint, 
who  is  said  to  have  carried  Christ  over  a  piece  of  water.  Christopher 
Cohimbus.  Christopher  Marlowe.  Christopher  Martin  Wieland. 
Sir  Christopher  Wren. 

Clara,  Clarissa,  Lat.  Clear.  The  name  of  Richardson's  heroine  5 
most  likely  adopted  by  him  intentionally. 

Clement,  Clemence,  Clementina,  Lat.  Kind  and  Forgiving.  Per- 
haps originally  from  a  Greek  word  signifying  a  vine }  when  it  would 
mean  Tenderly  Inclining ;  Apt  to  Embrace.  Clement  Marot,  the 
early  French  poet. 

Comfort,  Lat.  ?  Strong  with  3  Helping  to  Bear.  A  female  name, 
rare  and  good. 

Constance,  Constantia,  Constantine,  Lat.  Firm,  Constant;  lite- 
rally. Withstanding,  or  as  we  now  say.  Standing  by  us.  A  name  of 
noble  meaning. 

Cornelia,  Lat.  From  Cornu,  a  Horn,  the  ancient  emblem  of 
plenty.  It  has  been  made  a  favourite  with  posterity  by  that  fine  ma- 
ternal Spirit  who  produced  the  Gracchi. 

Cuthbert,  Sax.     Bright  Knowledge. 

Cyprian,  Gr.  A  native  or  inhabitant  of  Cyprus,  the  isle  of  Venus, 
The  fortune  of  this  name  is  singular.  It  is  given  to  women  in  re-, 
proach ;  but  men  were  first  christened  by  it  after  a  father  of  the 
church. 

Daniel,  Heb.     Judgment  of  God.     Daniel  de  Foe. 

David,  Heb.  Beloved.  David  Rizzio.  David  Teniers.  David 
Garrick.     See  Adam. 

Debora,  Heb.     A  Bee. 

Denys,  Dennis,  from  Dionysius  or  Dionysus,  the  Greek  name  of 
Bacchus.  According  to  some,  it  comes  from  a  Syrian  word  alhiding 
to  lameness  or  pain  in  the  thigh,  in  reference  to  the  birth  of  Bac- 
chus. Others  make  it  a  Greek  compound,  signifying  the  Divine  Mind 
or  the  Spirit  of  the  Universe.  The  modern  use  of  it  came  from  St. 
Denis  of  France.     See  Adam. 

Diana,  Gr.  It  means  Jove's  Daughter.  It  used  to  be  a  favourite 
name  in  the  times  of  the  old  stately  French  romance ;  and  has  sur- 
vived chiefly  among  people  of  rank. 

Dorothy,  Dorothea,  Dora,  G,r^  God's  Gift.  The  same  as  Theo- 
dora. It  was  the  name  of  our  late  cordial  actress,  Mrs.  Jordan.^ 
The  Italians,  who  make  pretty  words  of  every  thing,  turn  it  into 
Dorabella,  or  Dora  the  Fair, 

Drusilla,  Heb.  Dewy  Eyes.  The  familiar  abbreviation  of  it  is 
Dru,  which  appears  to  have  been  a  man's  name  in  Camden's  time. 


142  THE  INDICATOR. 

but  derived  either  from  a  Saxon  word,  signifying  subtle,  or  most 
likely  from  the  French  and  old  English  word  Druerie  or  Drury,  which 
meant  Gallantry. 

Edgar,  Snx.     Happy  Power. 

Edith,  formerly  Eade,  Ada,  &c.  from  the  Saxon  word  signifying 
Happy.     It  was  the  name  of  Pope's  mother, 

Edmund,  Sax.  Happy  Peace.  Edmund  Spenser.  Edmund 
Halley.     Edmund  Burke. 

Edward,  Sax.  Happy  Guarder  or  Keeper.  Edward  Fairfax. 
Edward  Gibbon.     Edward,  Lord  Herbert  of  Cherbury. 

Edwin,  Sax.  Happy  Winner.  It  is  a  favourite  name  in  the  Sandys 
family,  of  whom  was  Sandys  the  poet. 

Eleanoi-,  Eleonora,  Sax.  All  Fruitful.  But  Camden  brings  it 
from  Helen,  Gr.  One  who  takes  Pity.  Spenser  seems  to  derive  it 
also  from  the  Grecian  Helen,  as  he  spells  it  Hellenore, 

Eliza,  Elizabeth,  Betsey,  Isabel,  for  they  are  all  of  one  stock,  Heb. 
The  Oath  of  the  Lord ;  or  Camden  says.  Peace  of  the  Lord.  Isabel, 
or  Isabella,  is  only  the  termination  of  Eliza  with  the  addition  of 
Bella,  See  Dorothea.  It  seems  strange  at  first  how  the  name  of 
Eliza  got  into  Virgil's  Mneid,  as  that  of  the  sister  of  Dido  ;  but  the 
sisters  were  of  Phcenician  origin,  and  thus  the  name  gets  back  to 
Asia, 

Emma.  Some  think  the  same  as  Amie  or  Amelia ;  others,  an  old 
German  or  Norman  word  signifying  a  Good  Nurse ;  others  the  same 
as  the  Saxon  Elgiva,  Help-mate.  It  was  the  name  of  Charlemagne's 
daughter,  who  married  his  secretary  Eginhart. 

Erasmus,  Gr.     Loveable,  Amiable.    The  name  was  introduced  by 
the  celebrated  scholar  of  Rotterdam.     It  seems  to  have  become  a  fa- 
vourite in  the  Dryden  family,  perhaps  when  they  were  growing  luke-  . 
warm  to  popery. 

Ernest,  Gerrn.  Sincere  and  Ardent.  Earnest.  According  to  Casn- 
den,  it  is  Caesar's  word  Ariovistus ;  which,  say  the  Italian  genealo- 
gists, is  the  origin  of  the  name  of  Ariosto.  It  is  evident  from  the 
Commentaries,  that  the  Romans  must  have  mauled  foreign  appella- 
tions as  badly  as  the  French  do  now ;  so  much  so,  that  it  seems  im- 
possible to  recognize  the  pithy  Celtic  names  in  their  lengthened 
Latinisms. 

Esther,  Heb.     Secret. 

Everard,  Germ.  Well  Reported,  according  to  some  5  but  Camden 
thinks  with  others,  that  it  means  a  good  kindly  disposition  or  To- 
wardness. 

Eugene,  Eugenia,  Gr.     Well  Born. 

Euphemia,  Gr.     Well  Spoken. 

Eustace,  Gr.  Well  Standing ;  riot  easily  turned  aside.  The  fit 
name  of  the  famous  French  patriot  Eustace  St.  Pierre,  who  delivered 
himself  up  to  Edward  the  Third,  as  a  sacrifice  for  his  fellow-citizens. 

Eve,  Eva,  Heb.     Giving  Life. 

Evelina,  Evelin,    Probably  a  familiar  alteration  of  Eve. 


THE  INDICATOR.  143 

Felix,  Felicia,  Lat.  Happy.  The  same  as  the  Greek  MacariuSi 
and  the  Saxon  Edith.     Lope  Felix  de  Vega  Carpio, 

Ferdinand,  Fernando,  Fernan,  Hernan,  is  a  name  of  very  dis- 
puted origin.  Camden  thinks  it  may  come  from  the  German  words 
Fred  and  Rand,  Pure  Peace ;  and  this  appears  a  very  likely  etymo- 
logy, for  names  alter  strangely  in  making  the  Grand  Tour.  Hernan 
Cortes. 

Flora,  Lat.     Flowery. 

Florence,  a  name  both  of  men  and  women,  Lat.  Flourishing. 
Francis,  Frances,  Frank,  from  the  German  Franc,  Avhich  signifies 
Free,  as  opposed  to  Servile ;  whence  our  metaphorical  word  Frank, 
and  the  old  saying  of  Frank  and  Free.  It  is  the  same  word  as  French. 
Francesco  Petrarca.  Francis  Rabelais.  Francis  Bacon.  Francis 
Quevedo.  Francis  Beaumont.  Francis  de  la  Rochefoucault.  Francis 
de  Salignac  de  la  Motte  Fenelon.  Francis  Marie  Arouet  de  Voltaire. 
See  Anthony.  Francis  is  one  of  the  pleasantest  names  in  use.  It 
has  a  fine  open  air  with  it, — a  sound  correspondent  to  it's  sense. 

Frederick,  Germ.  Rich  Peace.  Frederick  Schiller.  George 
Frederick  Handel.  Frederick  of  Prussia.  It  was  brought  among 
us  by  the  Germans. 

Fulk,  Foulk,  Sax.  Folk  or  People.  A  very  popular  meaning, 
answering  to  the  Publius  of  the  Romans.  Sir  Fulke  Grevile,  the 
Friend  of  Sir  Philip  Sydney. 

Gabriel,  i?efe.  The  Strength  of  God.  This  appears  to  have  been, 
at  one  time  a  common  name  among  rustics,  if  we  may  judge  from 
the  reproach  of  clownishness  conveyed  in  the  old  saying  of  a  "  great 
Gaby." 

Geoffrey,  Jeffrey,  Germ.     Joyful  Peace.     Geoflfrey  Chaucer. 

George,  Gr.  Husbandman,  Tiller  of  the  Earth ;  the  same  as  the 
Latin  Agricola.  In  spite  of  the  word  Georgics,  one  is  surprised  to 
find  this  name  of  Greek  oi'igin,  it  has  retained  so  little  of  it's  charac- 
ter, and  been  so  much  identified  with  modern  England.  It  was  the 
national  Saint  that  brought  it  into  such  repute  5  a  personage  who, 
according  to  Gibbon,  turns  out  to  have  been  no  greater  than  a  jobber 
and  contractor,  of  very  equivocal  character.  George  BucShanan. 
George  Chapman.  George  Frederick  Handel.  George  Berkeley. 
George  Louis  le  Clerc,  Count  BufFon.     George  Washington. 

Georgiaria,  a  compound  of  George  and  Anne. 

Gferard,  Gerald,  often  corrupted  into  Garret.  Female,  Geraldine, 
Germ.  All  Tovvardness ;  Perfect  Goodwill.  Gerard  Douw.  The 
name  of  Lord  Surrey's  celebrated  mistress,  real  or  poetical,  was 
Geraldine. 

Gertrude,  Germ.     All  Truth. 

Gervas,  Jervas,  Jervoise,  Germ.     AH  Fast  or  Sure. 

Gilbert,  Germ.  Gilt-Bright ;  or  as  Camden  rather  thinks,  accord- 
ing to  an  old  spelUng  Gislebert,  Sax.  Bright  Pledge,  like  the  Pignora 
Amoris  of  the  ancients,  and  our  modern  phrase  of  a  Pledge  of  Love. 

Giles,  "  Miserably  disjointed,"  says  Camden,  by  the  French,  from 
the  Lat.  ^gidius,  Gr.  Aigidion.  A  Little  Kid.  The  word  Giles  is 
still  translated  into  Latin  .Sigidius.     Camden  thinks  however  that  it 


144  THE  INDICATOE. 

isL  probably  brought  from  Julius,  as  Gillian  from  Juliana :  which 
appears  the  more  likely  from  the  French  word  Jules  for  Julius. 

Godfrey,  Germ.  God's  Peace.  Godfrey  of  Boulogne,  who  went  to 
make  war  in  ths  Holy  Land. 

Grace,  Lat.     Grace,  in  the  sense  of  Favour. 

Gregory,  Gr.     Watchful,  Vigilant. 

Guy,  from  the  Italian  Guido,  which  they  derive  from  the  French 
Guide.  A  Guide  or  Conductor.  Guido  Reni.  In  this  country,  the 
name  is  probably  from  our  hei'o  of  romance,  Guy  Earl  of  Warwick. 

Hector,  Gr.  Defender.  This,  like  Solomon  and  Alexander  (Saw- 
ney) came  to  have  a  contemptuous  mock-heroical  meaning,  for  an 
obvious  reason. 

Helen,  Gr.  One  who  takes  Pity.  Paris  and  the  Trojans  must 
have  differed  on  the  applicability  of  this  name. 

Henry,  Henrietta,  Harry,  Harriet,  Germ.  Rich  Lord.:  the  same 
afi -the  Greek  Plutarch.  Henry  the  Fourth.  Henry  Purcell.  Henry 
St.  John,  Lord  Bolingbroke.  Henry  Fielding.  Henry  Howard,  Earl 
of  Surrey. 

Herbert,  Gerrn.     Bright  Lord. 

Horatio,  Horace,  Lat.  Camden  says  he  is  ignorant  of  th6  etymo-- 
logy  of  this  word,  but  with  his  usual  acuteness  offers  us  that  of 
Horatos  or  Horatikos  from  the  Greek,  "  as  of  good  eyesight."  Ety- 
mologists after  him  have  translated  it.  Worth  looking  at.  Worthy  to- 
be  beheld.  Sightly.  Query  ?  Whether  it  was  a  name  given  in  gratitude 
t©  the  Horae  or  Seasons,  who  were  always  supposed  to  be  bringing 
us  something  new,  and  one  of  Whose  pleasantest  gifts  were  children. 
See  Theocritus.     Syrakousiai,  v.  105. 

Hubert,  Sa^.     Bright  Hue. 
^  Hugh,   Germ,.     The  same  as  our  English  word  Hough.     To  ctit: 
and  lame.     Hugo  de  Groot,  or  Grotius.     Hugh  Middleton. 

-  Humphrey,  Germ.     Home  Peace.     See  John.     The  Italians,  we 
have  been  told,  make  a  similar  butt  of  their  word  Onufrio. 

Isaac,  Heb.  Laughter.  The  Gelasius  of  the  Greeks.  Isaac  Newtoh. 
Isaac,  or  as  he  more  Judaically  spelt  it,  Izaak  Walton. 

Isabel.     SeeEUzabeth. 

Jane,  from  Joan  and  Joanna>  the  female  of  John.  Lady  Jane  Grey. 
Joan  of  Arc. 

Jacob,  James,  Giacomo,  Giacopo,  lago,  Jachimo,  Jacques,  Heb. 
A  Supplanter,  or  Tripper-up  :  in  allusion  to  the  birth  of  Jacob. 
James  Ghrichtori  the  Admirable.  James  Thomson.  K.  James  the  First 
of  Scotland.     Jean  Jacques  Rousseau.     James  Cook. 


[We  miscalculated  our  rocfm  this  time,  owing  to  the  breaks  in  the  print,  vrb^ch 
-iriaike  such  a  number  of  paragraphs:  otherwise  this  article  would  not  have 
been  left  unfinished.    The  rest  will  appear,  of  course,  next  week.]  ' 


Qrders  Tcpeived  by  the  Booksellers,  by  the  Newsmen,  and  by  the  Publisher,  Joseph  Appleyardi 

No.  \9,  Catherine-street,  Strand.— Price  2d. 

Printed  by  G.H.ReyueU,  No.  45,  Broad-street,  Golden-square,  London. 


I 


THE    INDICATOR. 


There  he  arriving  round  about  doth  flie. 
And  takes  survey  with  busie,  curious  eye : 
Now  this,  now  that,  he  tasteth  tenderly. 

Spensek. 


No.  XIX.— WEDNESDAY,   FEBRUARY  16th,  1820. 


NAMES. 
(Concluded  from  last  weeli.) 


Jasper,  Gaspar,  Arah.  The  precious  stone  of  that  name.  Gaspar 
Poussin. 

Jemima,  Heh.     Meaning  unknown  to  us. 

Jeremy,  Beh.     High  of  the  Lord.     Jeremy  Taylor, 

Jessica,  Jessy,  Heh.  We  know  not  the  signification ;  but  the  little 
music-loving  Jewess  in  the  Merchant  of  Venice  has  rendered  it's 
pleasant  simplicity  still  pleasanter. 

John,  Heh.  Gracious.  Giovanni  in  Italian.  Jean  in  French. 
The  commonest  Christian  name  in  use,  given  originally  from  the 
most  amiable  of  the  apostles.  It's  being  so  great  a  favourite  seems 
at  last  to  have  turned  the  tables  upon  it,  and  brought  its  familiarity 
into  disrepute  ;  as  was  the  case  with  Humphrey  and  Anthony.  This 
is  another  reason  for  bringing  the  word  Jack  from  it,  as  every  body 
does  \  otherwise  we  should  have  thought  it  came  from  Jacques  or 
James.  Jack  has  been  tagged  to  every  possible  name  of  homeliness, 
ridicule,  and  contempt : — as  Jack-a-napes.  Jack-ass.  Jack-daw.  Jack 
Pudding  Jack-a-dandy.  Jack  (to  roast  meat  with.)  Black  Jack 
(to  hold  beer.)  Jack  Boots.  Every  Jack  has  his  Gill.  Jack-a-lan- 
tern.  Jack  in  the  Green.  Jack  in  the  Box,  Jack  in  the  Corner. 
Jack  Sprat,  Jack  Priest.  Jack  Ketch.  A  Jack  in  Office.  But 
now  hear  the  name  resume  it's  dignity  in  John  Milton,  John  Hamp- 
den, John  Fletcher,  John  Dryden,  John  Locke,  John  Selden,  John 
Marston,  John  Webster,  John  Evelyn,  John  Ford,  John  Howard, 
&c.  &c.  Then  in  the  French  there  is  Jean  Racine,  Jean  Baptists^ 
Moliere,  Jean  de  la  Fontaine,  Jean  le  Rond  d'Alembert,  Jean  Jacques 
Rousseau  :  and  in  Italian,  Giovanni  Boccaccio,  Giovanni  Lodovico 
Ariosto,  Giovanni  Paesiello,  &c. 

Joan,  Joanna,  see  Jane.  The  word  Anne  seems  to  be  from  the 
3ame  root. 

Jonathan,  Heh.  God's  Gift,  The  same  as  the  Greek  Theodore 
and  Theodosius,  and  the  Latin  Deodatus,     Jonathan  Swift, 

Joseph,  Heh.     Addition,     Joseph  Addison,     Joseph  Hadyn. 

Josua,  the  same  as  Jesus,  Heh.     A  Saviour.     Joshua  Reynolds. 

Julia^  Juliana,  Gillian,  hat.    From  Julianus,  Julius. 


146  THE  INDICATOR. 

Julius,  or  Julus,  originally  Gr.  Soft-haired,  or  Mossy-bearded. 
Julius  Caesar.     Giulio  Romano. 

L/setitia,  Lettice,  Lat.     Joy. 

Lancelot,  Launcelot,  Lancillotto,  a  Little  Lance.  Spanish  or  old 
French.  It  is  supposed  to  have  been  invented  for  the  famous  hero  of 
romance,  Launcelot  of  the  Lake ;  from  whom  it  became  a  common 
name. 

Laurence,  Lorenzo,  Laura,  Lat.  Laurel-like.  Flourishing  like 
the  Bay.  The  Daphnis  of  the  Greeks.  A  happy  name  for  Lorenzo 
de  Medici,  under  whose  shadow  lived  so  many  poets  and  learned  men. 
Lorenzo  Lippi.     Laurence  Sterne, 

Leonard,  Germ.     People- Pleaser.     Like  the  Greek  Demochares. 

Leopold,  Germ.   Defender  of  the  People.   Answering  to  Alexander. 

Lewis,  Louis,  Louisa,  Luigi,  Ludovico,  from  Lodowick,  Germ. 
Refuge  of  the  People.  From  it's  Latin  Ludovicus  came  by  familiar 
transposition  Clovis ;  and  then  by  dropping  the  C,  Lovis  and  Louis. 
The  Italians  turn  the  final  s  into  igi,  as  Amadis,  Amadigi ;  Fleur- 
de-lis,  Fiordiligi ;  Louis,  Luigi.  Luigi  Pulei.  Louis  de  Comoens. 
Lodovico  Giovanni  Ariosto. 

Lionel,  Lat.     A  Little  Lion. 

Lucretia,  Lat.  Profitable ;  Lucrative.  The  name  of  the  celebra- 
ted Roman  wife.     More  suitable  to  your  chaste  marriers  for  money. 

Lucy,  Lat.  Like  Light.  Camden  says  it  was  given  to  girls  born 
at  daylight ;  which  is  very  probable.  The  Romans  gave  their  names 
for  very  idle  reasons,  compared  vdth  the  Greeks ;  throughout  whose 
language  indeed  the  superiority  in  sentiment  is  remarkable.  A  better 
cause  would  be  a  Brightness  of  Aspect, — a  Glad  Clearness  of  Eye  and 
Look.  Lucifer  or  Light-bringer,  the  Phosphorus  of  the  Greeks, 
used  to  be  accounted  a  good  name ;  till  the  application  of  it  to  the 
devil,  from  a  passage  in  one  of  the  Prophets,  brought  it  into  disre- 
pute.    There  was  a  well-known  Lucifer,  Bishop  of  Cagliari. 

Luke,  if  Heb.,  Lifting  up ;  if  Gr.,  a  Wood  or  Grove.  Luca  Gior- 
dano. 

Lydia,  Gr.  A  female  born  in  Lydia.  It  is  a  name  in  the  New 
Testament. 

-  Mabel.  We  believe  still  survives,  as  it  ought,  whether  it  comes 
from  Mabella,  My  Fair  One ;  or  from  Mabilia,  Amabilia,  Amabilis, — 
Amiable. 

Magdalen,  Madelina,  Madeline,  Maudlin,  2?e6.  Majestic  j  some 
say  Magnificent.  It  conveys  a  very  different,  though  not  less  plea- 
sant idea,  from  the  gentle  penitent  in  the  Bible. 

Margaret,  Marget,  Margery,  Gr.  A  Pearl.  In  French  it  signified 
also  a  Daisy,  whifch  gave  occasion  to  a  world  of  amatory  and  flowery 
allusions.     Margaret  of  Navarre. 

Marianne,  Marian,  Marion.  A  compound  of  Mary  and  Anne. 
Marian,  a  gentle  and  sprightly  word,  became  in  request  as  the  name 
of  the  real  or  fancied  mistress  of  Robin  Hood. 

Mark,  if  Heb.,  High;  if  Lat.,  it  referred  to  the  month  of  March, 
or  to  Martialness.    Mark  Akenside, 


THE  INDICATOR.  147 

Marmaduke,  Germ.     More  Mighty. 

Martin,  Lat.     Martial.     Martin  Luther.     Martin  Wieland. 

Martha,  Heb.     Bitterness. 

Mary,  Maria,  Heb.  Some  say  Exalted ;  others.  Bitter.  The  sweet, 
unaffected,  and  feminine  sound  of  Mary  will  always  redeem  it  from 
an  iU.  meaning,  whether  of  pride  or  pain.  Mary  the  Anglo-Norman 
poetess.  Queen  Mary  who  married  Charles  Brandon.  Marie  de 
Rabutin,  Marchioness  de  Sevignfe.  Mary  Woolstonecraft. — See  Mat- 
thew and  Adam. 

Matthew,  Heb.     A  Gift.    Matthew  Prior.    Matteo  Maria  Boiardo. 

Matthias,  Heb.  A  similar  allusion.  Matthias  Corvinus,  King  of 
Hungary. 

Matilda,  Maud,  Germ.     Noble  Maid. 

Maurice,  Lat.  Born  or  descended  of  a  Moor ;  or  born  in  Mau- 
ritania. 

Maximilian.  A  modern  name,  compounded  by  a  German  emperor 
of  Fabius  Maximus,  and  Scipio  yEmilianus.  Maximilian  de  Bethune, 
Duke  de  Sully. 

Melicent,  Milly,  Fr.  Honey-Sweet. 

Michael,  Heb.  Who  is  like  God  ?  Michael  Angelo.  Michael  de 
Montaigne.     Miguel  Cervantes.     Michael  Drayton. 

Nathaniel,  Heb.     God's  Gift.     Answering  to  Theodore,  &c. 

Nicholas,  Nicol,  Colin,  Cole,  Gr.  Conqueror  of  the  People.  Nic- 
colo  Macchiavelli.  Cola  di  Rienzi.  Nicholas  Boileau.  St.  Nicholas 
among  the  Catholics  is  the  patron  of  seamen. 

Oliver,  Olivia,  Lat.  From  the  Olive-tree,  an  emblem  of  peace  j 
but  more  likely  perhaps  in  allusion  to  the  utility  and  pleasantness  of 
tbe  tree  itself.  Oliver,  the  Uliviero  of  the  Italian,  is  the  great  gallant 
of  the  romances  relating  to  Charlemagne  and  Orlando  :.  whence  the 
proverb  of  '  a  Rowland  for  an  Oliver.'  Oliver  Cromwell.  Oliver 
Goldsmith. 

Osmund,  Sax,     House  Peace. 

Oswald,  Germ.  House-Ruler — ^Major  Domo.  The  De  Spenser, 
now  Spenser,  of  the  Normans. 

Patrick,  Lat.     Patrician. 

Paul,  if  Heb.,  Wonderful,  or  Rest ;  if  Lat.,  Parvulus,  or  Little,  a 
term  of  endearment.  Paidiis  Govius,  or  Paulo  Giovio.  Peter  Paul 
Sarpi.     Peter  Paul  Rubens. 

Penelope,  Gr.     A  species  of  Turkey. 

Peregrine,  Lat.     Foreign. 

Peter,  Gr.  A  Stone.  See  Paul.  The  Czar  Peter.  Pietro  Gian- 
none.  Pietro  Metastasid.  Pierre  Abelard.  Pierre  Bayle.  Pedro 
Calderon  de  la  Barca.    Pierre  du  Terrail,  called  the  Chevalier  Bayard. 

Philip,  Philippa^  Gr.  A  Lover  of  Horses.  Sir  Philip  Sydney.  Philip 
Melancthon. 

Priscilla,  Lat.    A  Little  Ancient. 

Prudence,  Lat.  Humanized  into  Pru.  We  suspect  that  these  pro- 
digiously staid  names  are  apt  to  overshoot  themselves,  and  disgust 
the  possessor.     We  know  of  no  fair  Prudence  but  one,  whom  our 


148  THE  INDICATOR. 

English  Anacreon>  Robert  Herrick>  a  bachelor  and  poet,  has  often 
recorded  as  an  exquisite  maid-servant.    Hear  his  epitaph  upon  her : — 

Underneath  this  turf  is  laid 
Prudence  Baldwin, — once  my  maid. 
From  her  happy  spark  here  let 
Spring  the  purple  violet. 

Quintin,  Lat.     A  Fifth  Child. 

Rachael,  Heb.  A  Sheep  or  Lamb.  Well  bestowed  on  the  excellent 
Lady  Rachael  Russell,  the  gentle  and  patient  widow  of  the  Lord 
Russell  that  was  beheaded. 

Ralph,  Germ.     From  Randolph,  Help-Counsel. 

Raphael,  Heb.     The  Medicine  of  God.     Raphael  Sanzio  d'Urbino. 

Raymond,  Germ.     Quiet  Peace. 

Rebecca,  Heb.  Fleshy  and  Full ;  a  word  apparently  answering  to 
the  Bathukolpos,  or  Deep-bosomed,  of  the  Greeks. 

Reuben,  Germ.     The  Son  of  Visions,  or  Quick-Seeing. 

Richard,  Sax.     Rich  Heart.     Richard  the  First. 

Robert,  Robin,  Germ.  Bright  Counsel.  Robiia  Hood.  Robert 
Herrick.     Robert  Burns. 

Roger,  Germ.     Strong  Counsel.     Roger  Bacon. 

Rose,  Lat.     The  Flower  so  called. 

Rosamund,  Lat.  The  Rose  of  the  World.  The  name  of  the  fair 
mistress  of  Henry  the  Second. 

Rowland,  Orlando,  Germ.  Counsel  for  the  Land.  The  name  of 
the  hero  of  the  old  French  and  Italian  lomance. 

Sampson,  Heb.  There  the  Second  Time,  says  Camden:  others 
say,  a  Little  Son. 

Samuel,  Heb.  Placed  of  God.  Samuel  Butler.  Samuel  Rich- 
ardson.    Samuel  Johnson. 

Sebastian,  Gr.  Worshipful — Worthy  of  Honour.  Sebastian  Cabot. 
John  Sebastian  Bach. 

Simon,  Heb.     Obedient  Listening. 

Sophia,  Gr.  Wisdom.  Rendered  pleasanter  by  Tom  Jones's  heroine. 

Stephen,  Gr.     A  Crown, 

Susanna,  Susan,  Heb.     A  Rose. 

Sylvanus,  Sylvester,  Lat.  Of  the  Woods,  Delighting  in  Trees.  It 
would  shorten  well  into  Sylvan. 

Tabitha,  Heb.  A  Roebuck.  Evidently  the  same  allusion  to  eyes 
and  figure,  as  the  favourite  Eastern  simile  of  the  gazel  or  antelope. 
Yet  from  grave  appropriation  it  has  come  to  mean  something  ludi- 
crously opposed  to  grace  and  sprightliness. 

Theodore,  Gr.     God's  Gift. 

Thomas,  Heb.  A  Twin.  Sir  Thomas  More.  Thomas  Hobbes. 
Thomas  Decker.     Thomas  Gray.     Thomas  Chatterton. 

Timothy,  Gr.     Honouring  God. 

Valentine,  Lat.     See  Charles. 

Vincent,  Victor,  Victoria.  Conquering.  Vitlorio  Alfieri.  Vit- 
toria  Colonna,  a  celebrated  Italian  poetess. 

Walter,  Germ.     According  to  some,  a  Pilgrim ;  to  others,  a  Wood- 


THE  INDICATOR.  149 

man  or  Lover  of  Woods,  like  Sylvanus ;  and  to  others,  a  General  of 
an  Army.  In  all  senses  it  will  be  suitable  to  Sir  Walter  Raleigh. 
Walter  Furst,  one  of  the  founders  of  Swiss  liberty. 

William,  Wilhelmina,  Germ.  The  Defender  of  Many  A  good 
name  ;  and  together  with  Alfred,  the  most  honoured  in  our  language, 
for  it  belonged  to  Shakspeare.  See  also  the  illustrious  names  that 
follow  him.     William  Wallace.     William  Penn.     William  Tell. 

These  are  all  names  still  in  use.  But  they  who  would  give  a  name 
to  their  children  in  a  right  spirit,  might  introduce  others,  especially 
female  ones,  from  favourite  authors. 

As  the  whole  of  what  we  had  written  on  this  subject  could  not  be 
got  into  our  last  week's  paper,  we  shall  proceed  to  enlarge  upon  it  a 
little  more,  and  give  a  selection  of  names  from  the  greatest  writers, 
ancient  and  modern.  They  will  chiefly  be  female  ;  not  only  because 
they  are  the  more  beautiful  ones,  but  because  the  fair  sex,  being  less 
out  in  the  common  world  than  men,  preserve  a  kind  of  natural  ro- 
mance about  them,  which  makes  a  poetical  name  suit  them  better.  They 
can  wear  it  as  they  do  a  crown  of  flowers.  At  the  same  time,  there 
will  be  a  choice  of  every  species  of  meaning,  from  the  highest  and 
most  abstract  down  to  the  homeliest  or  most  housewifely. 

We  of  the  brown  sex  however  might  be  named  to  better  advantage 
than  usual,  if  our  parents  should  not  anticipate  for  us  a  character  ex- 
ceedingly low,  groveling,  or  ridiculous,  or  unable  to  afford  a  respec-^ 
table  association  of  ideas.  And  it  would  be  as  well  for  parent  as 
well  as  child,  if  the  former  would  think  what  he  is  going  to  do  with 
the  latter,  when  he  is  afraid  of  giving  him  a  good  name. 

GREEK  NAMES. 

Andromache,  Man-fight.  The  wife  of  Hector.  Not  a  Virago 
surely,  as  some  give  it,  but  spoken  in  allusion  to  qualities  which  at- 
tract rivalsj — the  Men's  Contest. 

Calypso,  Concealing,  Secret.  The  Nymph  who  detained  Ulysses 
so  long  in  her  green  island.  According  to  some  she  was  the  Goddess 
of  Silence ;  but  the  first  thing  we  know  personally  of  her  in  Homer 
is  her  singing. 

Euryclea,  Ample  Honour. 

Eurynome,  Ample  Feeding  or  Distribution. 

Polymele,  Many-Measured.     A  Dancer. 

Phaethusa,  Lightsome  or  Shining. 

Pasithea  or  Pasithae,  a  Wonder  to  All. 

Galene,  Calm  and  Glad. 

Thyene,  Odorous. 

Melissa,  a  Bee. 

Eudora,  Well  Gifted,  Accomplished, 

Dione,  Divine,  Sprung  from  Jove. 

Coronis,  Crowned  or  Tufted,  a  Crow. 

Aglaia,  Sparkling. 

Thalia,  Flowery  Joy.  )-  The  Graces  or  Charities. 

Euphrosyne,  Well-minded,  Chearful. 


V. 


150  THE  INDICATOR; 

Ismene,  Concientious  ?         1  The  two  generous  sisters^  daughter* 

Antigone,  Worth  a  Family  ?  3      of  CEdipus. 

Merope,  Gifted  with  Speech,  Humane. 

Eurydice,  Ample  Justice.     Wife  of  Orpheus. 

Tilphosa,  Sylph-like,  Superior  to  Old  Age. 

Evadne,  Well  Pleasing  ?  or  Full  of  Simplicity  ?  A  name  admired 
by  our  old  dramatists. 

^thra  (pronounced  Aithra,  our  dipthong  pronunciation  in  these 
instances  being  a  barbarism)  Fair  Weather,  ^therial  Calmness. 

Harmonia,  Harmony. 

Cynthia,  Cynthius,  from  Mount  Cynthus.  Names  of  Diana  and 
Apollo,  preserved  in  modern  Italy.     Cintio  Giraldi. 

Endymion,  Indued.  It  was  a  name  in  England  before  the  time 
of  the  Puritans. 

Venus,  Coming.     So  was  this  according  to  Camden. 

(Enone,  Winy. 

Iris,  the  Rainbow.  A  good  name  for  one  that  comforts  in  sorrow^ 
or  smiles  through  tears. 

Latona,  Retired.     The  Mother  of  Apollo. 

Phoebus,  Phoebe,  the  Pureness  of  Light.  Phoebus  was  a  name  in 
old  France,  probably  through  the  romances.     See  Diana. 

Calliope,  Fine  Voice.     The  Epic  Muse. 

Erato,  Loving.     The  Amatory  Muse. 

Euterpe,  Completely  Delighting.     The  Instrumental  Muse. 

Terpsichore,  Delighting  in  Choirs  or  Dances.  The  Muse  of  Dancing* 

Urania,  Heavenly.  The  Muse  of  Astronomy.  Also  a  name  of  Venus. 

Andromeda,  the  Care  of  Men. 

Hyacinthus,  Hyacinth,  the  Flower  of  that  Name.  Still  used  in 
France.     Jacintha  is  the  feminine. 

Narcissus,  the  Flower  of  that  Name.     Narcissa^  Narcisse, 

Daphne,  the  Poetic  Laurel  or  Bay. 

Halegone,  from  Pregnancy  at  Sea.     An  allusion  to  the  fish  of  that 
name,  or  King  Fisher,  who  is  said  to  make  her  nest  on  the  waters. 
.  Callianira,  Fair  Enchainer .'' 

Iphigenia,  Bravely  Born,  Stoutly  Brought  Forth.  This,  had  it  been 
a  girl,  instead  of  Henry  the  4th,  should  have  been  the  name  of  the 
Queen  of  Navarre's  infant,  when  she  sang  a  song  in  child-birth. 

Melite,  Honey- Sweet. 

Janthe,  Flourishing  like  the  Violet. 

Atalanta,  Invaluable. 

Rhodope,  Rosy  Look.  The  famous  fellow-sei'vant  of  ^sop,  whom 
Psammeticus  King  of  Egypt  married,  in  consequence  of  the  beauty  of 
one  of  her  sandals,  which  an  eagle  had  dropped  in  that  country. 

Aspasia,  Saluting,  Receiving  with  an  Embrace.  The  name  of  the 
eloquent  mistress  of  Pericles,  who  counted  Socrates  among  her  scho- 
lars. Xenophon's  wife  was  called  Aspasia,  according  to  some.  It  was 
adopted  also  by  the  mistress  of  the  younger  Cyrus,  whose  feal^  or 
former  name  was  Milto,  Vermilion-    >  *   '    '    j>i; /•(»•<'»'.    "i   '.brmW 

Apollonius,  of  or  belonging  to  Apollo.'  ■*'■  1  ^  , '^« 

Cleopatra,  the  Father's  or  Country's  Glory. 


THE  INDICATOR.  1^1 

Patroclus,  the  same  reversed. 
Amaryllis,  Splendid.     Q.  A  Fountain  in  a  Grove  ? 
Agathonj,  Good. 
Agenor,  Most  Manly. 

Amyntas,  Amyntor,  a  Helper  or  Defender. 

Callisthenes,  Beautiful  Strength.     The  name  of  the  philosopher 
who  was  put  to  death  for  refusing  to  pay  divine  honours  ta  Alexander. 
Euphranor,  Well  Minded,  Cheerfully  Disposed. 
Pamphilus,  Pamphila,  a  Friend  to  All. 
Leuconoe,  White  Minded,  Perfectly  Simple  and  Sincere. 
Lysander,  a  Freer  of  Men. 
Philemon,  One  Who  Loves  TJs. 
Philoxenus,  a  Lover  of  Hospitality. 
Philomusus,  Philomuse,  a  Lover  of  the  Muses. 
Elycera,  Elycerium,  Sweet. 
Chloe,  Green  Grass, 

Galatea,  Milky,  Milk-white.  ' 

Hylas,  Fond  of  the  Woods,  Sylvan. 
Leander,  Polished. 

NAMES    EXCLUSIVELY  LATIN, 

Yet  mostly  from  a  Greek  root, 

Sylvanus,  Sylvius,  Ital.  Sylvio ;  the  same  as  Hylas. 

Stella,  a  Star. 

Feronia,  Bearing.     The  Goddess  of  Copses. 

Pomona,  Fruity.     The  Goddess  of  Orchards. 

Hortensius,  Fond  of  Gardens.  The  Italians  stiU  have  Hortensiaj 
Fr.  Hortense. 

Aurora,  Golden.     The  Goddess  of  Morning. 

Aurelius,  Aurelia,  Sunny-Golden. 

Veronica,  True  Likeness. 

Scipio,  Walking-stick.  A  name  first  given  to  PuUius  Cornelius  of 
the  Scipio  Family,  for  leading  about  his  blind  father.  Still  kept  in 
Italy,  as  in  the  instance  of  Scipione  MaflFei. 

Flaminius,  for  Pilaminius,  Hat-wearing,  in  allusion  to  the  custom 
of  Numa's  priests.  A  good  name  for  the  family  of  the  De  Courcys, 
Lords  Kinsale,  who  for  overthrowing  a  foreign  champion  in  days  of 
old,  have  the  privilege  of  wearing  their  hats  in  the  royal  presence. 

Camillus,  the  same  as  Casmillus,  a  name  of  Mercury,  we  know 
not  of  what  signification. 

j3Smilius,  Urbane,  Affable,  Sociable.  We  take  this  opportunity  of 
solving  our  query  respecting  the  name  of  Emily  (see  Amelia)  which 
undoubtedly  is  the  feminine  of  ^milius. 

ITALIAN    NAMES 

Laura,  fro^l  Laurel. 

Pampinea,  Viny,  Crowned  with  Vine  Leaves. 
Meridiana,  Noon-like,  Bright  as  Noon-day. 
Forisena,  Fiorisena,  Bosom  of  Flowers. 
Luciana,  Like  Light. 


152  THE  INDICATOR. 

Chiariella,  Little  Clear  One. 

Angela,  Angelica,  Angel,  Angelic. 

Ginevra,  Gineura,  the  Juniper.     The  name  of  Ariosto's  mistress. 

Fiordiligi,  Flower  of  Lily. 

Fiordispina,  Flower  of  Thorn.     A  good  name  for  an  infant  wel- 
comed in  the  midst  of  distress. 
.  Bianca,  White,  Very  Fair. 

Graziosa,  Graceful  or  Gracious. 

Erminia,  Fond  of  Solitude }  or  from  Ermine  ? 

Alba,  the  Dawn,  Fair  as  Daylight. 

Rosalba,  Rosy  Dawn,  or  White  Rose. 

Rosabella,  BeautifiU  Rose. 

Rosetta,  Rosalia,  Rosina,  Little  Rose.     Fr.  Rosette,  Rosalie. 

Rosaura,  Air  of  Roses. 

NAMES   FROM  THE   ENGLISH  POETS. 

Una,  the  only  one.  Unless  it  came  from  the  Irish  Oonaghj  of 
which  we  know  not  the  signification. 

Amoret,  a  Little  Love. 

Florimel,  Honey  of  Flowers. 

Belphcebe,  Fair  Phoebe. 

Marine),  of  the  Sea. 

Elf,  Elfin,  Elfilin,  Elfinore,  Quick,  Nimble  Spirit. 

Alma,  Genial,  Cherishing. 

Calidore,  Fine  Gift,  or  Finely  Gifted. 

Calantha,  Beautiful  Flower. 

Ariel  is  a  Hebrew  word,  we  forget  of  what  meaning ;  but  the 
reader  may  find  it,  if  we  remember,  in  Heywood's  Hierarchic  of 
Angels.  The  airy  sound  of  it  admirably  suits  the  "  delicate"  sprite 
of  the  Tempest. 

Miranda,  One  to  be  Admired. 

Silvia,  see  Hylas  or  Sylvanus. 

Rosalind.  We  know  not  the  etymology  of  Lind.  But  Shakspeare's 
heroine  will  warrant  the  name  without  the  necessity  of  a  meaning. 

Viola,  a  Violet. 

Perdita,  Lost  3  a  Foundling. 

Imogen.  We  believe  an  old  German  name  5  but  are  ignorant  of 
the  etymology. 

Cordelia,  Cordial.  Unless  it  originally  meant,  with  another  ac- 
cent. Heart  of  Leah. 

Juliet,  Little  Julia. 

Pamela,  pioperly  called  Pam^a,  All  Apples. 

Oriana,  some  allusion  to  Gold  or  Sun-rise. 

Philaster,  Star-lover. 

Astrophel,  the  same. 

Earine,  Vernal. 


Orders  received  by  the  Booksellers,  by  the  Newsmen,  and  by  the  Publisher,  Joseph  Appleyard, 

No.  ID,  Catherine-street,  Strand.— Price  2d. 

Printed  by  C.  H.  Ueynell,  No,  45,  Broad-street,  Golden-square. 


THE    INDICATOR. 


There  he  arriving  rouml  rJiout  doth  flie, 
And  takes  survey  with  busie,  curious  eye: 
Now  this,  now  that,  he  tastcth  tenderly. 

Spenser. 


No.  XX.— WEDNESDAY,    FEBRUARY  23rd,  1920. 


RONALD  OF  THE  PERFECT  HAND. 

[The  following  tale  is  founded  upon  a  tradition  in  Mrs,  Grant's  Superstitions 
of  the  Highlands.  It  was  originally  intended  to  be  written  in  verse  ;  which  will 
account  for  it's  present  appearance.] 

The  stern  oH  shepherd  of  the  air, 

The.spirit  of  the  whistling  hair. 

The  wind,  has  risen  drearily 
'  In  the  Northern  evening  sea, 

And  is  piping  long  and  loud 

To  many  a  heavy  upcoming  cloud, — 

Upcoming  heavy  in  many  a  row. 

Like  the  unwieldy  droves  below 

Of  seals,  and  horses  of  the  sea, 
,  That  gather  up  as  drearily, 

And  watch  with  solemn-visaged  eyes  i 

Those  mightier  movers  in  the  skies. 

Tis  eveninig  quick; — tis  night -.—the  rai^ 
Is  sowing  wide  the  fruitless  main. 
Thick,  thick  ; — no  sight  remains  the  while 
From  the  farthest  Orkney  isle. 
No  sight  to  sea-horse,  or  to  seer. 
But  of  a  little  pallid  sail. 
That  seems  as  if  twould  struggle  near. 
And  then  as  if  it's  pinion  pale 
Gave  up  th^  battle  to  the  gale. 
Four  chiefs  there  are  of  special  note. 
Labouring  in  that  earnest  boat; 
Four  Orkney  chiefs,  that  yesterday 
Coming  in  their  pride  away 

From  the  smote  Norwegian  king,  j 

Led  their  war-boats  triumphing 
Straight  along  the  golden  line 
Made  by  nlorriing's  eye  divine. 
Stately  came  they,  one  by  one, 
Every  sail  beneath  the  sub, 


154  THE  INDICATOR, 

As  if  he  their  admiral  were 
Looking  down  from  the  lofty  air, 
Stately,  stately  through  the  gold. — 
\  But  before  that  day  was  done, 

Lo,  his  eye  grew  vexed  and  cold  ; 

And  every  boat,  except  that  one, 

A  tempest  trampled  in  it's  roar ; 

And  every  man,  except  those  four, 

Was  drenched  and  driving,  far  from  home. 

Dead  and  swift,  through  the  Northern  foam. 

Four  are  t^iey,  who  wearily 
Have  drunk  of  toil  two  days  at  sea ; 
l)uth  Maruno,  steady  and  dark, 
Cormar,  Soul  of  the  Winged  Bark ; 
And  bright  Clan  Alpin,  who  could  leap 
Like  a  torreat  from  steep  to  steep  ; 
And  he,  the  greatest  gf  that  great  baud, 
Ronald  of  the  Perfect  Hapd. 

Dumbly  strain  they  for  the  shore. 
Foot  to  board,  and  grasp  on  oar, 
,    .  The  billows,  panting  in  tlie  wind. 

Seem  instinct  with  ghastly  mind, 
^    And  climT)  like  crowding  savages 
At  the  boat  that  dares  their  seas. 
Dumbly  strain  they,  through  and  through. 
Dumbly,  and  half  blindly  too, 
Drench'd,  and  buffeted,  and  bending 
I  Up  and  down  without  an  ending. 

Like  ghostly  things  that  could  not  cease 
To  row  among  those  savages; 

Ronald  of  the  Perfect  Hand 

Has  rowed  the  most  of  all  that  band  ; 

And  now  he's  resting  for  a  space 

At  the  helm,  and  turns  his  face 

Round  and  round  on  every  side 

To  see  what  cannot  be  descried. 

Shore,  nor  sky,  nor  light,  nor  even 

Hope,  whose  feet  are  last  in  heaven. 

Ronald  thought  him  of  the  roar 

Of  the  fight  the  day  before. 

And  of  the  young  Norwegian  prinee 

Whom  in  all  the  worryings 

And  hot  vexations  of  the  fray. 

He  had  sent  with  life  away. 

Because  he  told  him  of  a  bride 

That  if  she  lost  him,  would  have  died  j 

And  Ronald  then,  in  bitter  case. 

Thought  of  his  own  sweet  lady's  face. 

Which  upon  this  very  night 

Should  have  blushed  nith  bri4al  liffbt. 


THE  INDICATOR.  155 

J  And  of  her  downward  eyelids  meek. 

And  of  her  voice,  just  heard  to  speak. 
As  at  the  altar,  hand  in  hand. 
On  ceasing'  of  the  organ  grand, 
'Twould  have  bound  her,  for  weal  or  woe. 
With  delicious  answers  low. 
And  more  he  thought  of,  grave  and  sweet. 
That  made  the  thin  tears  start,  and  meet 
The  wetting  of  the  insolent  wave  ; 
And  Ronald,  who  though  all  so  brave. 
Had  often  that  hard  day  before 
Wished  himself  well  housed  pn  shore; 
Felt  a  sharp  impatient  start 
Of  homesick  wilfulness  at  heart. 
And  steering  with  still  firmer  hand. 
As  if  the  boat  could  feel  command. 
Thrilled  with  a  fierce  and  forward  motion. 
As  though  'twould  shoot  it  through  the  ocean. 

"  Some  spirit,"  exclaimed  Duth  Maruno,  "  must  pursue  us,  and 
perpetually  urge  the  boat  out  of  it's  way,  or  we  must  have  arrived 
by  this  time  at  Inistore."*  Ronald  took  him  at  his  word,  and  turn- 
ing hastily  round,  thought  he  saw  an  armed  figure  behind  the  stern. 
His  anger  rose  with  his  despair  ;  and  with  all  his  strength  he  dashed 
his  arm  at  the  moveless  and  airy  shape.  At  that  instant  a  fierce 
blast  of  wind  half  turned  the  boat  round.  The  chieftains  called  out 
to  Ronald  to  set  his  whole  heart  at  the  rudder ;  but  the  wind  beat 
back  their  voices,  like  young  birds  into  the  nest ;  and  no  answer 
follow^ed  it.  The  boat  seemed  less  and  less  manageable,  and  at  last 
to  be  totally  left  to  themselves.  In  the  intervals  of  the  wind  they 
again  called  out  to  Ronald,  but  still  received  no  answer.  One  of 
them  crept  forward,  and  felt  for  him  through  the  blinding  wet  and 
darkness.  His  place  was  void.  "It  was  a  ghost,"  said  they,  "which 
came  to  fetch  him  to  the  spirits  of  his  fathers.  Ronald  of  the  Perfect 
Hand  is  gone^  and  we  shall  follow  him  as  we  did  in  the  fight.  Hark ! 
The  wind  is  louder  and  louder  :  it  is  louder  and  many- voiced.  Is  it 
his  voice  which  has  roused  up  the  others  ?  Is  he  calling  upon  us,  as 
he  did  in  the  battle,  when  his  followers  shouted  after  his  call?" 

It  was  the  rocks  of  an  isle  beyond  Inistore,  which  made  that  mul-- 
titudinous  roaring  of  the  wind.  The  chieftains  found  that  they  were 
not  destined  to  perish  in  the  mid  ocean  5  but  it  was  fortunate  for 
them  that  the  wind  did  not  set  in  directly  upon  the  island,  or  they 
would  have  been  dashed  to  pieces  upon  the  I'ocks.  With  great  diffi- 
culty they  stemmed  their  way  obliquely ;  and  at  length  were  thrown 
violently  to  shore,  bruised,  wounded,  and  half  inanimate.  They 
remained  on  this  desolate  island  two  daysj  during  the  first  of  which 
the  storm  subsided.  On  the  thirds  ^hey  were  taken  away  by  a  boat 
of  seal-hunters. 

The  chiefs,  on  their  arrival  at  home,  related  how  Ronald  of  the 

*  The  old  name  for  the  Orkneys. 


156  THE  INDICATOR.    - 

Perfect  Hand  had  been  summoned  away  by  a  loud-voiced  spirit,  and 
disappeared.  Great  was  the  mourning  in  Inistore  for  the  Perfect 
Hand ;  for  the  Hand  that  with  equal  skill  could  throw  the  javehn 
and  traverse  the  harp ;  could  build  the  sudden  hut  of  the  hunter ; 
and  bind  up  the  glad  locks  of  the  maiden  tired  in  the  dance.  There- 
fore was  he  called  the  Perfect  Hand;  and  therefore  with  great 
mourning  was  he  mourned ;  yet  with  none  half  'as  great  as  by  his 
love^  his  betrothed  bride  Moilena ;  by  her  of  the  Beautiful  V^oice,  who 
had  latterly  begun  to  be  called  the  Perfect  Voice,  because  she  was  to 
be  matched  with  him  of  the  Perfect  Hand.  Perfect  Hand  and  Per- 
"  feet  Voice  were  they  called ;  but  the  Hand  was  now  gone,  and  the 
Voice  sang  brokenly, for  tears. 

A  dreary  winter  was  it,  though  a  victorious,  to  the  people  of  Inis- 
tore. Their  swords  had  conquered  in  Lochlin  ;  but  most  of  the 
hands  that  wielded  them  had  never  come  back.  Their  warm  pressure 
was  felt  no  more.  The  last  which  they  had  given  their  friends  was 
now  to  serve  them  all  their  lives.  "  Never,  with  all  my  yearning," 
said  Moilena,  "  shall  I  look  upon  his  again,  as  I  have  looked  at  it  a 
hundred  times,  when  nobody  suspected.  Never."  And  she  turned 
from  the  sight  of  the  destructive  ocean,  which  seemed  as  interminable 
as  her  thoughts. 

But  winter  had  now  passed  away.  The  tears  of  the  sky  at  least 
were  dried  up.  The  sun  looked  out  kindly  again;  and  the  spring 
had  scarcely  re-appeared,  when  Inistoi'e  had  a  proud  and  a  gladder 
day,  from  the  arrival  of  the  3'oung  prince  of  Lochlin  with  his  bride. 
It  was  a  bitter  one  to  Moilena,  for  the  prince  came  to  thank  Ronald 
for  sparing  his  life  in  the  war,  and  had  brought  his  lady  to  thank  him 
too.  They  thanked  Moilena  instead  ;  and  proud,  in  the  n)idst  of  her 
unhappinesSj  of  being  the  representative  of  the  Peifect  Hand,  she 
lavished  hundred  of  smiles  upon  them  from  her  pale  face.  But  she 
wept  in  secret.  She  could  not  bear  this  new  addition  to  the  store  of 
noble  and  kind  memories  respecting  her  Ronald.  He  had  spared  the 
bridegroom  for  his  bride.  He  had  hoped  to  come  back  to  his  own. 
She  looked  over  to  the  north ;  and  thought  that  her  home  was  as 
much  there  as  in  Inistore.  ' 

Meantime,  Ronald  was  not  drowned.  A  Scandinavian  boat,  bound 
for  an  island  called  the  Island  of  the  Circle,  had  picked  him  up. 
The  crew,  which  consisted  chiefly  of  priests,  were  going  thither  to 
propitiate  the  deities,  on  account  of  the  late  defeat  of  their  country- 
men. They  recognized  the  victorious  chieftain,  Avho  on  coming  to 
his  senses  freely  confessed  who  he  was.  Instantly  they  raised  a 
chorus,  which  rose  stei-nly  through  the  tempest.  "  We  carry,"  said 
they,  ''  an  acceptable  present  to  the  Gods.  Odin,  stay  thy  hand  from 
the  slaughter  of  the  obscure.  Thor,  put  down  the  mallet  with  which 
thou  beatest,  Uk-e  fed  hail,  on  tiie  skulls  of  thine  enemies.  Ye  other 
feasters  inValhalla,  set  down  the  skulls  full  of  mead,  and  pledge  a  health 
out  of  a  hew  and  noble  one  to  the  King  of  Gods  and  Men,  that  the 
twilight  of  heaven  may  come  late.  We  bring  an  acceptable  present : 
we  bring  Ronald  of  the  Perfect  Hand."    Thus  they  sang  in  the  boat. 


THE  INDICATOR.  157 

labouring  all  the  while  with  the  jvinds  and  waves,  but  surer  now 
than  ever  of  reaching  the  shore.  And  they  did  so,  by  the  first  light 
of  the  morning.  When  they  came  to  the  circle  of  sacred  stones, 
from  which  the  island  took  it's  name,  they  placed  their  late  conquer- 
or by  the  largest,  and  kindled  a  fire  in  the  middle.  The  \v^rm  smoke 
rose  thickly  against  the  cold  white  morning.  "  Let  me  be  otFered 
up  to  your  gods,"  said  Ronald,  "  like  a  man,  by  the  sword;  and  not 
like  food,  by  the  fire."  "  We  know  all,"  ans^vered  the  priests  :  "  be 
thou  silent."  "Treat  not  him,"  said  Ronald,  '^'^  who  spared  your 
prince,  imworthily.  If  .he  must  be  sacrificed,  let  him  die  as  your 
prince  would  have  died  by  this  hand."  Still  they  answered  nothing, 
but  "  We  know  all:  be  thou  silent."  Ronald  could  not  help  wit- 
nessing these  preparations  for  a  new  and  unexpected  death  with  an 
emotion  of  terror  ;  but  disdain  and  despair  were  uppermost.  Once, 
and  but  once,  his  cheek  turned  deadly  pale  in  thinking  of  Moilena. 
He  shifted  his  posture  resolutely,  and  thought  of  the .  spirit  of  the 
dead  whom  he  was  about  to  join.  The  priests  then  encircled  the  fire 
and  the  stone  at  which  he  stood,  with  another  devoting  songj  and 
Ronald  looked  earnestly  at  the  ruddy  flames,  which  gave  to  his  cold 
body,  as  in  mockery,  a  kindly  warmth.  The  priests  however  did  not 
lay  hands  on  him.  They  respected  the  sparer  of  their  prince  so 
far  as  not  to  touch  him  tiiemselves ;  they  left  him  to  be  dispatched 
by  the  supernatural  beings,  whom  they  confidently  expected  to  come 
down  for  that  purpose  as  soon  as  they  had  retired. 

Ronald,  whose  faith  was  of  another  description,  saw  their  departure 
with- joy  J,  but  it  was  damped  the  next  minute.  What  was  he  to  do  in 
winter-time  on  an  island,  inhabited  only  by  the  amphibious  oeatures 
of  the  northern  sea,  and  never  touched  at  but  for  a  purpose  liostile 
to  his  hopes  ?  For  he  now  recollected,  that  this  was  the  island  he 
had  so  often  heard  of,  as  the  chief  seat  of  tlie  Scandinavian  religion ; 
whose  traditions  had  so  influenced  countries  of  a  difierent  faith,  that 
it  was  believed  in  Scotland  as  well  as  the  continent,  that  no  human 
being  could  live  there  many  hours.  Spirits,  it  was  thought,  appeared 
in  terrible  superhuman  shapes,  like  the  bloody  idols  which  the  priests 
worshipped  ;  and  carried  him  off. 

The  warrior  of  Inistoi-e  had  soon  too  much  reason  to  know  the 
extent  of  this  belief.  He  was  not  without  fear  himself,  but  disdained 
toyieldtoany  circumstances  without  a  struggle.  He  refreshed  himself 
with  some  snow-water;  and  after  climbing  the  highest  part  of  the 
island  to  look  for  a  boat  in  vain  (nothing  was  to  be  seen  but  the 
waves  tumbling  on  all  sides  after  the  storm)  he  instantly  set  about 
preparing  a  habitation.  He  saw  at  a  little  distance,  on  a  slope,  the 
mouth  of  a  rocky  cave.  This  he  destined  for  his  sheltej'  at  night ; 
and  looking  round  for  a  defence  for  the  door,  as  he  knew  not  whether 
bears  might  not  be  among  the  inhabitants,  he  cast  his  eyes  upon  the 
thinnest  of  the  stones  which  stood  upright  about  the  fire.  The  heart 
of  the  warrior,  though  of  a  different  faith,  misgave  him  as  he  thought 
of  appropriating  this  mystical  stone,  carved  full  of  strange  figures ; 
but  half  in  courage,  and  half  in  the  very  despair  of  fear,  he  suddenly 


158  THE  INDICATOR. 

twisted  it  from  it's  place.  No  one  appeared.  The  fire  altered  not. 
Tlie  noise  of  the  fowl  and  other  creatures  was  no  louder  on  the  shore. 
Ronald  smiled  at  his  fears,  and  knew  the  undiminished  vigour  of  the 
Perfect  Hand. 

He  found  the  cavern  already  fitted  for  shelter;  doubtless  by  the 
Scandinavian  priests.  He  had  bitter  reason  to  know  how  well  it 
sheltered  him ;  for  day  after  day  he  hoped  in  vain  that  some  toat 
from  Inistore  would  venture  upon  the  island.  He  beheld  sails  at  a 
distance,  but  they  never  came.  He  piled  stone  upon  stone,  joined 
old  ,pieces  of  boats  together,  and  made  flags  of  the  sea- weed  ;  but  all 
in  vain.  The  vessels,  he  thought,  came  nearer,  but  none  so  near  as 
to  be  of  use ;  and  a  new  and  sickly  kind  of  impatience  cut  across  the 
stout  heart  of  Ronald,  and  set  it  beating.  He  knew  not  whether  it 
was  with  the  cold  or  with  misery,  but  his  frame  would  shake  for  an 
hour  together,  when  he  lay  down  on  his  dried  weeds  and  feathers  to 
rest.  He  remembered  the  happy  sleeps  that  used  to  follow  upon  toil 5 
and  he  looked  with  double  activity  for  the  eggs  and  sliell-fish  on  which 
he  sustained  himself,  and  smote  double  the  number  of  seals,  half 
in  the  very  exercise  of  his  anger :  and  then  he  would  fall  dead  asleep 
with  fatigue. 

In  this  way  he  bore  up  against  the  violences  of  the  winter  season, 
which  had  now  past.  The  sun  looked  out  with  a  melancholy  smile 
upon  the  moss  and  the  poor  grass,  checquered  here  and  there  with 
flowers  almost  as  poor.  There  was  the  buttercup,  struggling  from  a 
dirty  white  into  a  yellow  3  and  a  faint-coloured  poppy,  neither  the 
good  nor  the  ill  of  which  was  then  known ;  and  here  and  there  by  the 
thorny  underwood  a  shrinking  violet.  The  lai-k  alone  seemed  chear- 
ful,  and  startled  the  ear  of  the  desolate  chieftain  with  it's  climbing 
triuniph  in  the  air.  Ronald  looked  up.  His  fancy  had  been  made 
wild  and  wilful  by  strange  habits  and  sickened  blood  3  and  he  thought 
impatiently,  that  if  he  were  up  there  like  the  lark,  he  might  see  his 
friends  and  his  love  in  Inistore. 

Being  naturally  however  of  a  gentle  as  well  as  courageous  disposi- 
tion, the  Perfect  Hand  found  the  advantage  as  well  as  necessity  of 
turning  his  violent  impulses  into  noble  matter  for  patience.  He  had 
heard  of  the  dreadful  bodily  sufferings  which  the  Scandinavian  heroes  - 
underwent  from  their  enemies  with  triumphant  songs.  He  knew 
that  no  such  sufferings,  which  were  fugitive,  could  equal  the  agonies 
of  a  daily  martyrdom  of  mind  ;  and  he  cultivated  a  certain  humane 
pride  of  patience,  in  order  to  bear  them. 

His  only  hope  of  being  delivered  from  the  island  now  depended  on 
the  Scandinavian  priests  3  but  it  was  a  moot  point  whether  they 
would  respect  him  for  surviving,  or  kill  him  on  that  very  account, 
out  of  a  mixture  of  personal  and  superstitious  resentment.  He 
thought  his  death  the  more  likely  3  but  this  at  least  was  a  termi- 
nation to  the  dreary  prospect  of  a  solitude  for  life  3  and  partly  out  of 
that  hope,  and  partly  from  a  courageous  patience,  he  produced  as 
many  pleasant  thoughts  and  objects  about  him  as  he  could.  He 
adorned  his  cavern  with  shells  and  feathers ;  he  made  himself  a  cap 


THE  INDICATOR.  •  15^ 

and  cloak  of  the  lattfer,  axid  boots  and  a  vest  of  seal-skin^  girding  it 
about  with  the  glossy  sea- weed  3  He  cleared  away  a  circle  before  the 
cavern,  planted  it  with  the  best  grass,  and  heaped  about  it  the  mos- 
siest stones  :  he  strung  some  bones  of  a  fish  with  sinews,  and  fitting 
a  shell  beneath  it;,  the  Perfect  Hand  drew  forth  the  first  gentle  musif 
that  had  ever  been  heard  in  that  wild  island.  He  touched  it  one  day 
in  the  midst  of  a  flock  of  seals,  who  were  basking  in  the  sun ;  they 
turned  their  heads  towards  the  sound  ;  he  thought  he  saw  in  their 
mild  faces  a  human  expression ;  and  from  that  day  forth  no  seal  was 
ever  slain  by  the  Perfect  Hand.  He  spared  even  the  huge  and 
cloudy-visaged  walrusses,  in  whose  societies  he  beheld  a  dull  resem- 
blance to  the  gentler  affections ;  and  his  new  intimacy  with  these 
possessors  of  the  place  was  completed  by  one  of  the  former  animals, 
who  having  been  rescued  by  him  from  a  contest  with  a  larger  one, 
followed  him  about,  as  well  as  it's  half-formed  and  dragging  legs 
would  allow,  with  the  officious  attachment  of  a  dog. 

But  the  summer  was  gone  and  no  one  had  appeared.  The  new 
thoughts,  and  deeper  insight  into  things,  which  solitude  and  sorrow- 
ful necessity  had  produced,  together  with  a  diminution  of  his  activity, 
had  not  tended  to  strengthen  him  against  the  approach  of  winter  3 
and  autumn  came  upon  him  like  the  melancholy  twilight  of  the  year. 
He  had  now  no  hope  of  seeing  even  the  finishers  of  his  existence  be- 
fore the  spring.  The  rising  winds  among  the  rocks,  and  the  noise 
of  the  whales  blowing  up  the  spouted  water  till  the  hollow  caverns 
thundered  with  their  echoes,  seemed  to  be  like  heralds  of  the  stern 
season  which  was  to  close  him  in  against  all  approach.  He  had  tried 
one  day  to  move  the  stone  at  the  mouth  of  his  habitation  a  little 
furth^  in,  and  found  his  strength  fail  him.  He  laid  himself  half 
reclining  on  the  chilly  ground,  full  of  such  melancholy  thoughts  as 
half  bewildered  him.  Things  by  turn  appeared  a  fierce  dream  and  a 
fiercer  reality.  He  was  leaning  and  looking  on  the  ground,  and 
idly  twisting  his  long  hair,  when  his  eyes  fell  upon  the  hand  that 
held  it.  It  was  livid  and  emaciated.  He  opened  and  shut  it,  opened 
and  shut  it  again,  turned  it  round,  and  looked  at  it's  ribbed  thin- 
ness and  laid-open  machinery  5  many  thoughts  came  upon  him, 
some  which  he  understood  not,  and  some  which  he  recognized  but 
too  well ;  and  a  turbid  violence  seemed  rising  at  his  heart,  when  the 
seal  his  companion  drew  nigh,  and  began  licking  that  weak  memorial 
of  the  Perfect  Hand.  A  shower  of  self-pitying  tears  fell  upon  the 
seal's  face  and  the  hand  together.  4 

On  a  sudden,  he  heard  a  voice.  It  was  a  deep  and  loud  one,  and 
distinctly  called  out,  Ronald!  He  looked  up,  gasping  with  worider. 
Three  times  it  called  out^  as  if  with  peremptory  command  5  and  three 
times  the  rocks  and  caferns  echoed  the  word  with  a  dim  sullenness. 

Recollecting  himself,  he  would  have  risen  and  answered,  but  the 
sudden-t;hange  of  sensations  had  done  what  all  his  sufferings  had  not 
been  able  to  do ;  and  he  found  himself  unable  either  to  rise  or  to 
speak.  The  voice  ealled  again  and  aga^n^  but  it  was  now  more  dis- 
tant ;  and  Ronald's  heart  sickened  as  he  heard  it  retreating.    His 


160  THE  INDICATOR. 

strength  seemed  to  fail  him  in  proportion  as  it  became  necessary. 
Suddenly  the  voice  came  back  again.  It  advances.  Other  voices  are 
heard,  all  advancing.  In  a  short  time,  figures  come  hastily  down 
the  slope  by  the  side  of  his  cavern,  looking  over  into  tlie  area  before 
it  as  they  descend.  They  enter.  They  are  before  him  and  about 
him.  Some  of  thetii,  in  a  Scandinavian  habit,  prostrate  themselves 
at  his  feet,  and  address  him  in  an  unknown  language.  But  these 
are  sent  away  by  another,  who  remains  with  none  but  two  youths. 
Ronald  has  risen  a  little,  and  leans  his  back  against  the  rock.  One 
of  the  youths  puts  his  arm  between  his  neck  and  the  rock,  and  half 
kneels  beside  him,  turning  his  face  away  and  Aveeping.  "  I  km  no 
god,  nor  a  favourite  of  gods,  as  these  people  supposed  ine,"  said  Ro- 
nald, looking  up  at  the  chief  who  was  speaking  to  the  other  youth  : — 
"  if  thou  wilt  dispatch  me  then,  do  so.  I  only  pray  thee  to  let  the 
death  be  fit  for  a  warrior,  such  as  I  once  Was."  The  chief  appeared 
agitated.  "  Speak  not  ill  of  the  gods,  Ronald,"  said  he,  "  although 
thou  wert  blindly  brought  up.  A  warrior  like  thee  must  be  a  fa- 
vourite of  heaven.  1  come  to  prove  it  to  thee:  Dost  thou  not  know 
me  ?  I  come  to  give  thee  life  for  life."  Ronald  looked  more  stead- 
'fastly.  It  was  the  Scandinavian  prince  wliom  he  had  spared,  be- 
cause of  iiis  bride,  in  battle.  He  smiled,  and  lifted  up  his  hand  to 
him,  which  was  inteicepted  and  kissed  by  the  youth  who  held  his 
arm  round  his  neck.  "  Who  are  these  fair  youths?"  said  Ronald, 
half  turning  his  head  to  look  in  his  supporter's  face.  "  This  is  the 
bride]  spoke  of,"  ans\Vered  the  prince,  "  who  insisted  on  sharing  this 
voyage  with  me,  and  put  on  this  dress  to  be  the  bolder  in  it."  "And 
who  is  the  other?"  The  other,  with  dried  eyes,  looked  smiling  into 
his,  and  intercepted  the  answer  also. — "  Who,"  said  the  sweetest 
voice  in  the  world',  "  can  it  be,  but  one?" — With  a  quick  and  almost 
fierce  tone,  Ronald  cried  out  aloud  "1  know  the  voice;"  and  he 
would  have  fallen  fiat  on  the  earth,  if  they  had  not  all  three  sup- 
ported him. 

It  was  a  mild  return  to  Inistore,  Ronald  gathering  strength  all  the 
way  at  the  ey«s  and  voice  of  Moilena,  and  the  hands  of  all  three. 
Their  discovery  of  him  was  easily  explained.  The  crews  Of  the  ves- 
sels, who  had  been  afraid  to  come  nearer,  had  repeatedly  seen  a  figure 
on  the  island  making  signs.  The  Scandinavian  priests  related  how 
they  had  left  Ronald  there,  but  insisted -that  no  human  being  could 
live  upon  it,  and  that  sonie  god  wished  to  manifest  himself  to  big 
faithful  worshippers.  The  heart  of  MoUena  was  quick  to  guess  the- 
truth.  The  pi  ince  ])ro])osed  to  accompany  the  priests.  His  bride 
and  the  destined  bride  of  his  saviour  went  with  him,  and  returned  as 
you  heard  ;  and  from  that  day  forth  many  were  the  songs  in  Inistore, 
upon  the  fortunes  of  the  Perfect  Hand  and  the  kindness  of  the  Per- 
fect Voice.     Nor  were  those  forgotten,  who  forgot  not  others. 


Orders  teceired  by  the  Booksellers,  by  the  Newsmen,  and  by  the  Publisher^ 
■     J.  Appleyard,  19,  Catherine-street,  Strand.— Price  i^d.      . ,       : 
Printed  by  C,  H.  Reynell,  No.  45,  Broad-street,  Golden-square. 


THE    INDICATOR. 


There  he  arriving-  round  about  doth  flie. 
And  takes  survey  with  bnsie,  eurious  eye: 
Now  this,  now  that,  he  tasteth  tenderly. 

SPENSEn. 


No.  XXL— WEDNESDAY,  MARCH  1st,  1820. 


SCENES  FROM  AN  UNFINISHED  DRAMA. 

The  following  scenes  are  from  a  play  which  the  Editor  intended 
to  write,  and  belonged  to  the  more  serious  part  of  it.  The  rest  he 
has  retained  for  another  purpose.  The  objects  of  the  piece  in  gene- 
ral were  to  shew  the  character  of  an  English  gentleman  in  the  time 
of  Elizabeth ;  the  manners  at  the  same  period  of  the  Venetians,  both 
rich  and  poor  j  and  the  generous  struggle  of  a  mother  to  suppress  a 
passion  she  conceived  for  our  countryman,  who  had  saved  her  daughter 
from  drowning.  The  accident,  like  the  scheme  of  PoUexfen  in  Sir 
Charles  Grandison,  had  been  purposely  contrived  by  a  Venetian  of 
darker  character,  Malipiero,  as  the  only  means  of  gaining  the  young 
lady's  affection ;  but  the  Englishman  was  quicker  to  rescue  her,  and 
so  threw  him  doubly  aback.  The  incidents,  or  rather  the  dialogues, 
which  took  place  immediately  after  this  circumstance,  occupy  the 
scenes  now  laid  before  the  reader.  Vittoria  and  iFiammetta,  the  mother 
and  daughter,  are  of  a  similar  character  for  goodness  and  frankness  j 
but  the  one  is  the  more  stately  minded,  the  other  sparkling  and  full 
of  spirits,  Candian,  her  grand-uncle,  Sebastian,  her  brother.  Mo- 
lino,  Contarini,  and  Malipiero,  are  Venetian  gentlemen,  the  four  first 
of  different  characters  of  sprightliness  or  warmth ;  the  last  an  intel- 
ligent man  like  the  rest,  but  of  a  violent  and  envious  disposition. 
Vanni  and  Gregory  are  the  servants  of  Candian  and  the  Englishman. 
With  Walter  Herbert  the  Englishman,  and  indeed  with  most  of  the 
others,  it  is  lucky  perhaps  that  the  author  had  nothing  farther  to 
do ;  for  he  intended  him  as  one  of  those  high  and  graceful  spirits,  in 
the  best  age  of  this  country,  who  were  admitted  to  the  society  of  it's 
poets  and  other  great  men.  , 

"  For  valour,  is  not  Love  a  Herculfes  ?" 


l62  THE  INDICATOR. 

CoNTARiNi.  The  Englishmen  indeed.  Sir,  have  graced  us. 
Not  we  the  Englishmen.    How  instantly 
Sebastian's  friend  laid  himself  out  o'  the  boat, 
Before  our  thoughts  had  time  to  find  themselves, 
And  gave  us  back  our  pale  one. 

MoLiLO.  Like  a  god 

In  his  own  element.     'Twas  a  strange  thing,— 
That  sudden  shock.     I  never  knew  the  like 
Happen  before  in  Venice,  though  our  gondolas 
Serve  us  for  every  purpose  of  the  road. 
And  pierce  about  like  fish. 

CONT.  It  marred  so  too 

The  stately  self-possession  of  the  day. 
Especially  before  our  naval  emulators. 
How  Malipiero's  vexed ! 

MoL.  He  seized  directly 

Piero,  the  gondolier,  who  is  supposed 
To  have  meant  this  mischief  out  of  some  revenge 
Towards  his  good  master ;  and  conveyed  him  off 
With  his  fierce  fist  against  the  scoundrel's  throat. 

CoNT.  That's  settled  then.    Some  singular  punishment 
Will  mark  this  singular  disgrace  of  Venice. 

ErUer  Sebastian, 

MoL.  How  are  the  ladies  n«w  ? 

Sebastian.  Quite  well  again. 

'Twas  but  a  fright  at  last,  though  a  severe  one. 
Fiammetta  sparkles  like  a  flower  new  washed, 
And  turns  it  all,  as  she  is  wont  to  do. 
To  chearfulness  and  grace.' 

CONT,  A  charming  lady. 

But  how's  your  mother  ? 

Seb,  She's  recovered  too ; 

Yet  though  she  had  no  drowning,  takes  on  still, 
Kissing  my  sister's  hand,  and  cheek,  and  pressing  her. 
And  then  again  turning  to  plenteous  tears. 
As  if  she  wept  for  all  that  might  have  happened. 

MoL.  I  have  observed  it  so :  the  heart,  as  'twere. 
Takes  pity  on  itself,  and  so  turns  fond 
On  it's  own  gentle  nature. 

See.  Yes,  -when  tears 

Come,  as  these  do,  seldom,  and  out  of  sweetness. 
My  dearest  mother  is  of  a  true  clay. 
Much  like  her  daughter ;  only  former  trouble— 
The  loss  of  a  loved  partner, — made  her  quit 
The  dance,  and  sit  her  down  in  a  still  patience, 
Happy  to  see  us  nevertheless  enjoy  it. 
She  seldom  weeps  :  but  now  that  this  rude  shock 
Has  shaken  up  the  long-collecting  fountains. 
She  bathes  her  heart's  great  thirst. 

Enter  Candian. 

CAriD.  Piero's  escaped. 
"    Seb.  Escaped? 

,  Cand.  Escaped, — in  an  unguarded  moment. 
Poor  Malipiero  reddens  for  mere  rage, 
And  will  not  patiently  endure  to  hear 
JEven  the  English  praised : — he  says  their  coming 
Is  a  bad  omen. 

Mot.  'Tis  his  vehemence. 

He's  vexed  at  the  escape  5  and  to  speak  truly. 


THE  INDICATOR.  163 

I  think  his  natural  emulation  chides  him 
For  not  being  quicker  than  the  Englishman. 

CoNT.  He'll  make  it  up  to  him  with  double  praise. 
This  jealousy  in  noble  spirits  runs  forth 
For  it's  own  self,  only  to  turn  again 
With  a  new  shape  of  ardour,  and  perform 
Another's  messages  to  fame  more  quickly. 

Seb.  It  does  so.    I  have  heard  my  noble  friend 
Our  visitor  say,  that  spirits  which  have  wings 
Of  muscular  root  enough  to  winnow  up, 
As  they  go  on,  the  petty  from  the  great, 
Find  something  more  successful  than  success 
Itself,  or  rather  than  the  name  of  it, — 
Succeeding  most  where  they  most  realize 
Their  own  calm  world  of  beauty,  and  inspire 
A  self-divested  sense  of  it  in  others  : 
Like  odour-wafting  airs  in  summer-time. 
In  which  the  odour's  praised,  tiiough  not  the  air. 

Cand.  'lis  wondered  at  by  some,  that  Piero  escaped  ; 
And  certainly  'tis  strange,  especially 
As  his  own  tribe  are  jealous  of  their  fame. 
And  fall,  like  clamourous  birds,  upon  foul  play. 
Yet  as  to  what  concerns  our  anxious  friend, 
Who  is  to  wonder,  that  a  spirit  like  his. 
Unused  to  keep  constrained  it's  very  thoughts. 
Should  let  his  generous  hand  forget  it's  hold. 
And  find  it  a  bad  jail. 

CoNT.  Who,  Sir,  indeed  ? 

But  we'll  detain  you,  gentlemen,  no  longer 
From  our  fair  friends  ;  pray  tell  them  of  our  joy. 
And  willing  envy  of  the  Englishman. 

Cand.  Nay  we  will  praise,  and  thank  him,  but  not  envy. 
We  can  afford,  I  hope,  to  let  a  foreigner 
Plunge  in  our  waters  for  a  lady's  sake, 
Without  making  the  windows  stare  the  wider. 
And  lift  their  stony  brows  up  in  astonishment. 
But  he's  a  gallant  fellow,  and  we'll  tell  him  so. 

SCENE.— The  front  of  the  Candian  Palace. 

Enter  Gregory. 

Gregory.  This  comes  of  travelling.  It  seems  all  a  dream.  I'm  not  sure  that 
I  sha'n't  wake  and  find  myself  in  the  arms  of  the  dear  old  chair  at  the  Bull.  My 
mEister,  whom  it  is  impossible  to  resist,  offers  me  to  go  with  him ;  1  consent ;  and 
so  he  ties  me  in  a  manner  to  his  coat  like  a  witch,  and  off  I^o  ;  first  scouring  over 
the  road  to  the  seaside  ;  then  rocking  up  and  down,  up  and  down,  till  I'm  sick  ; 
then  scouring  away  again  ;  then  dragged  up  mountains  into  the  clouds,  till  my 
teeth  chatter  for  fear  and  cold  ;  then  whew!  down  again  like  a  flourish  on  paper; 
then  jolted  along,  all  unbuttoned  for  heat ;  then  bitten  till  I  could  have  got  the 
sign  of  the  comb  to  scratch  me  ;  or  scraped  acquaintance  with  a  brick  wall ;  or 
taken  to  the  cunning  custom  of  flogging  myself  for  penance ;  or  winced,  and 
tumbled,  and  beaten  myself  and  the  very  air  about  me,  like  a  shirt  hung  out  to 
dry  in  a  high  wind : — then  comes  some  more  sea-rocking,  and  then  says  my 
master,  "  Now,  Gregory,  we  land  for  good  :" — thinks  I,  looking  about  me,  and 
seeing  nothing  but  canals  for  streets,  and  houses  standing  out  of  them  like  so 

many  cows   in  a  pond, 1  hope  we  don't  land  for  evil :  and  I  had  scarcely 

thought  the  word,  when  we  took  to  boating  it  ag^ain,  and  hey '.  presto  I  down 
goes  that  Will-o'-the-wisp,  my  master,  souse  over  head  and  ears  after  a  fish  in 
petticoats. 

Enter  Vanni. 

Vanni.  Well,  Gregory,  this  is  a  strange  unaccountable  circumstance,  isn't  it! 


1^4  THE  INDICATOR. 

Greg.  What,  a  fall  in  the  water !  not  half  so  strange  to  me,  Vanni,  as  that 
you  Venetians  will  have  so  much  water  to  fall  in. 

Van.  Tf  we  hadn't  so  much  water  to  fall  in,  we  shouldn't  have  so  much  love 
to  fall  in.  Our  shews  and  our  shews-off  by  day,  our  gondolas,  and  our  serenades, 
what  should  we  do  without  them  ?  And  the  water  causes  or  sweetens  them  aU. 
You'll  hear  guitars  to  night  twinkling  about  like  stars.  I  won  my  mistress's 
heart  by  a  plunge  higher  than  was  known  before  into  the  River  of  Song ! 

Greg.  How  these  Venetians  do  talk !  Guitars  twinkling  about  like  stars !  and 
a  plunge  into  the  River  of  Song !  there's  a  name  for  a  canal !  It's  fine  talking, 
and  sometimes  puts  me  in  mind  of  my  master's  friends.  Master  Shakspeare  and  the 
others  at  the  Mermaid ;  but  what  name  comes  home  to  jne  like  the  manly  and 
natural  one  of  Fleet  Ditch  ! 

Van.  You  seem  sad,  Gregory.  We  shall  cheer  you  up  before  long.  ■  We  have 
every  thing  here  to  make  a  man  merry,— rowing,  laughing,  sunshine,  music,  wo- 
men, every  thing. 

Greg.  No,  Sir, — no.  Sir, — you  haven't  my  wife  and  Bunhill-fields. 

Van.  There's  plenty  of  fields  over  the  water,  and  as  to  your  wife,  my  dear  Gre- 
gory, I  never  heard  you  talk  much  about  her  before.  Besides,  she  told  you  she 
should  be  quite  happy,  you  know  ;  and  she  looked  so. 

Greg.  Ah,  Sir,  and  then  you  pretend  that  the  English  women  are  not  so  chear- 
ful  as  your's.  Oh,  I  never  loved  my  wife  more  than  now  I  am  in  the  thick  of  'em. 
Oh,  how  I  loved  her  during  the  squall  at  sea !  and  how  prodigiously  I  did  love 
her,  when  I  thought  1  should  have  broken  my  neck  on  the  top  of  the  Alps !  I  hope, 
Sir,  you  found  your  intended  as  well  as  could  be  expected  after  your  absence. 

Van.  Better  than  ever :  as  hearty  as  you'll  find  your  wife,  Gregory : — but  how 
formal  and  ceremonious  you  seem  to  think  it  necessary  to  be  in  your  pathetics. 
Come,  man,  I'll  shew  you  the  lions,  as  you  used  to  say,  and  keep  my  word  better 
too,  as  far  as  stone  lions  can  go  ;  and  then  I'll  introduce  you  to  Momola.  She'll 
rouse  your  Spirits  for  you.  We'll  cross  the  way  to  St.  Mark's.  Bartolo,  tJiere! 
Hallo  !     Mind  the  canal,  Gregory,  you'll  run  over  the  parapet. 

Greg.  Lord!  the  very  dangers  in  this  place  have  nothing  Christian  about 

them!  We  can't  even  be  run  over  by  a  horse,  but  must  be  warned  how  a  parapet 
is  run  over  by  a  man. 

Van.  We'll  go  round  by  the  bridge  if  you  prefer  it,  Gregory. 

Greg.  Ah,  do. 

Van.  Never  mind,  then,  Bartolo,  this  time. 

Greg.  Perhaps  I  shall  have  the  pleasure  of  meeting  with  some  dust.  lEx&unt. 

SCENE. — Ao  apartment  in  the  Palace  Candian.  Vittoria  and  Fiam- 
metta  sitting  together,  with  books,  music,  and  flowers  about  them  ; 
the  former  with  her  face  towards  a  looking-glass,  adjusting  somc- 
tkisag  aibout  her  head. 

^i\u^  My  dear,  dear  mather,  let  me  make  you  merry  agam. 
.  I'm  Hierry. 

ViT.  Be  so,  x:hild, — be  so,  deai"  child. 

FiAM.  You  see  how  stout  I  am  ;  I'm  drest  before  you.  * 

'Twas  but  a  kind  of  unexpected  bath. 
'Twas  frightful  to  be  sure  ;  the  sudden  missing 
Of  one's  dry  senses,:— the  deaf  plunge  and  bubbling, 
And  wrapping  up  in  heavy  wateriness  : 
But  now  that  it  is  past,  somehow  or  other. 
One  feels  the  grander  for  it,  and,  poor  soul ! 
Fancies  o»ne's  accident  a  grand  atchievement! 
You're  absent,  mother!     You're  in  the  boat  still! 

ViT.  No  more  of  that,  my  love,  I  have  you  fast  j  < 

Your  brother  is  come  home,  our  noble  bird, 
Nobler  than  ever !     What  can  I  want  more 
To  make  me  happy?     I  believe  I  want 
Some  pain  to  pinch  away  these  foolish  tears. 
And  make  me,  as  before,  give  smile  for  smile. 


THE  INDICATOR.  1^ 

FiAM.  Shall  I  read  to  you,  mother  ? 

ViT.  No,  my  child. 

FiAM.  Or  sing?  or  dance?  or  bring  your  favourite  picture 
Of  Dido  playing  with  the  cheeks  of  Cupid, 
As  if  she  said  unwittingly,  "  Vou  rogue!" 

ViT.  Oh  no,  no,  no !  talk  to  me  of  things  common; 
Of  dress,  for  instance,  flounces,  coifs,  and  fashions. 
And  what  new  creature  we're  to  look  like  next. 
When  some  great  lady  quarrels  with  her  shoulder-blade, 
Or  has  a  private  pique  against  her  waist. 

FiAM.  Ob,  if  no  waist,  like  a  tied  sack  of  charcoal. 
Or  like  the  letter  B  run  up  to  seed; 
And  if  a  waist,  why  then  we  must  be  wasps 
Cut  right  in  two,  or  hour-glasses  that  shew 
The  time  by  letting  their  wise  heads  run  empty. 
Or  if  we  must  be  neither,  we'll  preside 
O'er  hoops,  like  busts  upon  a  cupola; 
Or  turn  to  real  walking  bells,  with  feet 
For  double  clappers  ;  and  let  motherchurch 
Look  to  high  winds,  or  we'll  have  belfry  and  all. 
For  bonnet,  with  the  penthouse,  and  stick  in  it 
The  whole  Flower-Market  and  the  shops  of  plumes, 
And  all  the  Sunday  ribbons  in  the  parish. 

ViT.  Why  you  dash  on  this  morning  like  Sebastian, 
Along  your  gay  reflections  in  wit's  gondola. 

FiAM.  And  you  must  think  of  gondolas  again. 
And  sigh,  dear  mother.    Well,  if  you  will  think  of  'era. 
Pray  tell  me  now  what  think  you  of  the  Englishman ; 
Taking  him  in  the  common  light,  you  know,- — 
His  look,  his  figure ;  for  to  say  the  truth. 
Only  dont  tell,  I've  hardly  seen  him  yet; 
Though  I've  the  recollection  at  my  heart 
Of— 

ViT.  What,  my  love  ? 

FiAM His  terrible  pinching  fingers. 

ViT.  Why,  you  sweet  trifler!  this  is  the  way,  is  it. 
You  treat  a  — gentleman  that  saves  your  life. 

FiAM.  A  gentleman  that  saves  one's  life!     Well,  really  jaow, 
That  is  a  proper  philosophic  way 
Of  putting  it,  before  we've  got  the  ri^h* 
Of  speaking  highlier  of  him  for  himself. 
You  mean,  I  know,  you  dare  not  trust  yourself 
Just  now,  upon  that  watery  subject,  mother ; — 
But  this,  believe  me,  is  the  very  way 
To  speak  of  such  good  chances  giv'n  the  gentlemen. 
From  what  I've  read,  there  are  some  ladies  who 
Think  one  such  plunge  renders  a  man  invulnerable 
To  all  objection.     By  their  rule,  one  ought 
To  save  one's  life,  only  to  lose  one's  freedom  ; 
Begging  the  gentleman,  that  since  a  shark 
Was  not  to  have  you,  or  since  he  had  kindly 
Taken  the  trouble  to  pick  you  up,  he'd  have  yon. 
Tis  lucky,  mother,  the  same  principle 
Does  not  extend  to  limbs,  or  'twould  be  requisite 
To  give  one's  hand  for  saving  it  a  scratch ; 
Or  when  a  dog  was  hindered  of  his  bite. 
Present  one's  foot  with  an  elaborate  stretch. 
Like  a  French  dancer,  and  say,  "  Gracious  Sir, 
You  saved  this  foot  of  mine;  will't  please  ye  accept  h?" 

ViT.  Oh  rattler,  rattler!    How  am  I  to  know 
That  all  this  smiling  surface  of  your  talk 
Has  not  grave  ground  beneath? 


166  THE  INDICATOR. 

FiAM Nay,  mother,  now 

You  make  me  blush  to  think  that  I  could  give 
More  than  my  thanks  at  first  to  one  of  whom 
I  know  so  little  ;  grateful  thanks,  'tis  true, 
Most  grateful, — but — I'm  sure  you  think  a  man 
Should  shew  that  he  has  picked  up  a  few  qualities 
As  well  as  ladies,  ere  he  picks  our  hearts. 
My  brother,  to  be  sure,  is  fond  of  truth, 
Extremely  fond, — but  then  as  uncle  said — 

Enter  CAfiDi\s,  followed  ly  Molino,  Contarini,  and  Malipiero. 

Cand.  And  what  did  uncle  say  ?     Ladies,  allow  me — 
The  Signor  Malipiero,  a  sad  gentleman. 
Who  thinks  it  necessary  to  apologize 
For  not  being  a  king-fisher. — We  found  him 
Eyeing  his  would-be  element  at  the  door. 

Mal.  Nay,  Sir,  I  yield  to  none  in  hearty  chearfulness ; 
And  as  I  hope  and  thiak  the  best  of  others, 
'Tis  thought,  I  trust,  of  me:  and  yet,  dear  ladies, 
A  man  may  reasonably  regret,  that  chance 
Should  on  the  turn,  as  'twere,  of  one  swift  instantj 
Whisk  him  from  shewing  all  his  zeal  for  ye. 

ViT.  My  daughter  loves  a  good  intention.  Sir, 
Too  well  to  make  it  answerable  to  fortune. 

Mal.  (to  Fiam.)  Then,  Madam,  I  may  hope  that  this  omission 
Will  not  be  held  a  punishable  sin. 
When  heavenly  eyes  look  down  upon  one's  homage. 

Fiam.  If  you  mean  my  eyes,  Signor  Malipiero, 
Which  heaven  forbid  should  look  down  on  tall  gentlemen^ 
1  think  no  evil  of  our  other  friends  here. 
And  why  should  I  of  you  ? 

Cand.  Come,  Malipiero, 

Settle  these  grave  state  questions  by  and  bye. 
For  here's  Sebastian  and  the  Englishman : 
I  saw  them  from  the  window,  coming  in. 

Enter  Servant. 
Signor  Sebastian,  and  his  noble  friend.  Sir. 

Enter  Sebastian  and  Waiter  Herbert. 

Seb.  Dear  mother,  uncle,  sister  sweet,  and  gentlemen, 
I  need  not  introduce  my  noble  friend 
And  your's — the  Signor  Walter  Herbert,  Englishman. 
Dear  Walter,  this  is  the  affectionate  circle 
I've  told  you  of  so  often.     Heaven  be  praised 
You're  in  the  midst  of  it,  and  have  been  so. 

Cand.  Our  silence.  Sir,  must  shew  you  what  we  feel. 
This  ready  swiftness  to  oblige  your  friends. 
Is,  I  perceive,  a  habit  with  you. 

Herb.  If,  Sir, 

Winning  their  ready  kindness  be  obliging  them. 
'Tis  counted  so  by  some. 

Vit.  Sir,  the  best  thanks 

A  mother  can  pay  to  you,  who  has  been 
Made  breathless  with  two  rushing  visitations. 
Terror  and  joy,  is  to  shew  what  you  saved  for  her : — 
My  daughter.  Sir. 

Herb.  A  pearl  indeed,  whose  sight 

Would  pay  a  fathomless  plunge. 

Fiam.  I  cannot.  Sir, 

Pay  compliments ;  I  fear,  I  had  expected — 
I  thank  you,  Sir,  from  bottom  of  my  heart. 


THE  INDICATOR.  l6t 

Herb.  I  am  paid.  Madam,  beyond  complimeat, — 
Almost  beyond  surprise,  to  think  that  two 
Such  spirits  from  the  earthly  heaven  of  womanhood 
Should  stand  before  me — pardon  me  this  burst, — 
And  fancy  that  they  owed  me  any  thing. 

ViT.  You  can  pay  compliments  at  any  rate,  Sir, 
Whether  we  must  or  not. 

Herb.  You  make  me  vain.  Madam ; 

And  vanity  assumes  the  right  to  praise. 
Where  silence  is  best  worship. 

ViT.  Nay,  Sir,  J  neither  ^ 

Deny  your  right,  nor,  to  say  truth,  our  pleasure. 
We  feel  but  doubly  flattered  to  conjecture 
That  you  are  driven  by  your  sympathy 
Out  of  your  plainer  path. 

Herb.  You  judge  me.  Madam, 

Truly  and  nobly. 

Cand.  You're  no  friend  then.  Sir, 
To  compliment  in  general  ? 

Herb.  Oh  yes.  Sir, 

Where  'tis  th'  escape  of  pleased  sincerity, 
And  not  so  needlessly  alone,  as  shews  it 
Vanity  and  a  superfluous  common-place. 

ViT.  And  what.  Sir,  as  to  takiiig  compliments  ? 
Herb.  It  seems  to  me.  Madam,  as  I  presume 
It  does  to  you,  by  your  reception  of  them. 
That  not  to  take  a  compliment  in  general. 
With  leaning  rather  to  the  praiser's  feelings 
Than  his  tpue  |ight,  or  our  own  better  merits, 
Argues  self-love  rather  than  modesty. 

Cand.  You  see.  Sir,  we  have  scarcely  yet  recovered 
Our  drowning,  and  our  gratitude.    Come,  this  weight 
Of  mutual  homage  bows  us  into  ceremony 
In  our  own  spite.     It  must  give  way  to  something 
Quite  as  respectful,  and  more  easy  and  pleasant : 
Mutual  enjoyment. 

Seb.  The  right  proposition. 

Herb.  I  feel  the  hand  of  home.  Sir,  in  this  grasp. 
Seb.  Yes,  Walter,  we  but  fancy  we're  new  friends  here ; 
We  are  as  old  ones  as  the  tastes  we  love. 

Herb.  And  friends  have  other  privileges  in  England. 
Cand.    Ay,  and  in  most  places.    Come,  girls,  your  cheeks. 

(Herbert  hisses  them.) 
FiAM.  (aside).  I  told  you  how  'twould  be.  Mother? 
My  cheek's  gone  off  already. 

ViT.  And  your  heart ;        , 

(aside).  She  blushes,  and  I  fear  I  do  so  too : — 
I  have  most  cause. 

Seb.  (to  FiAM.)  Well,  Sister  gravity,  and  have  ypu  no  praises 
As  well  a«  cheeks  ? 

FiAM.  Yes,  just  as  many  as  friends 

Would  wish  to  have  just  now ; — at  least  I  think  so. 

Herb.  Your  brother  could  not  be  more  gladly  answered. 
Nor  I  more  honoured. 

Mal.  'Tis  an  answer,  Sir, 

Befitting  the  coy  oracle  that  sits 
Within  a  maid's  sincerity :  but  suffer 
Us  to  give  louder  grace  to  your  achievement. 
And  hail  you  at  the  shrine  whose  present  goddess 
You  have  preserv'd.    It  was  a  happy  deed. 
And  might  have  made  us  watery  champions  jealous,     . 
Did  it  not  ev'n  outbenefit  envy. 


168  THE  INDICATOR. 

Herb.  That 

Were  to  outdo  the  deeds  of  Hercules, 
And  make  old  Atlas  turn  to  kiss  his  burden. 
Like  a  borne  lass.     Your  generous  spirit.  Sir, 
Sees,  like  an  eye,  more  infinite  things  outside  it. 
Than  ever  it  would  boast  to  hold  itself. 
You  measure  my  desert  by  your  great  joy. 

Mal.  Is  not  this  contradicting  your  own  sentiment, 
A  little  so  ai  least, — denying  us 
The  priJe  of  giving  you  what  you  give  others? 

Herb.  Well,  Sir,  to  shew  you  I  can  claim  my  due. 
And  have  my  benefits  returned,  I'M  ask 
This  lady  to  speak  for  me,  and  to  own 
That  what  would  have  been  done  by  any  gentleman 
Should  not  be  charged  so  brightly  on  my  scutcheon. 

FiAM.  Nay,  Sir,  I'll  own  still  more,  and  plainly  tell  you. 
And  thai  without  the  fear  of  being  tossed  back 
Into  (he  sea  for  my  ingratitude. 
That  I  insinuated  as  much  just  now 
To  Signor  Malipiero  here  himself. 
Did  I  not,  gentlemen  ?  And  did  I  rate 
You,  Signor  C'ontarini,  or  you.  Sir, 
For  not  being  quicker  than  our  other  friend. 
And  catching  me  no  agues ! — Pardon  me, 
But  I  should  have  asked.  Sir,  whether  you  suffered 
The  least  -  -  no  clinging  chilliness,  I  trust. 
Or  other  -  - 

Herb.  Not  the  least,  Madam  ;  no  more 

Than  if  I  had  put  my  hand  into  a  brook. 
To  bring  away  a  lily.     I  had  heard 
Of  your  own  welfare :  and  if  I  had  not, 
I  see.7— You,  Madam,  (to  ViT.)  scarcely  seem  so  well. 
As  when  I  first  came  in. 

ViT.  Oh  quite.  Sir,  thank  you, 

I  feel  the  ebbing  of  these  waters  yet 
At  intervals.     Quite  well,  child, — quite  indeed. 
Uncle,  we're  getting  at  our  compliments 
Again. 

Cand.  Indeed !  I  fear  IVe  scarcely  given  our  friend 
A  proper  English  welcome.    Well ;  I  hope 
You'll  spend  the  day  with  us,  and  teach  us  how 
"To  interchange  each  other's  cordial  customs. 
My  nephew  tells  itie  you  must  leave  us  now 
To  visit  the  ambassador.     Be  it  so  ; 
But  come  back  quickly — will  you  ?  that's  Avell  looked : 
For  you  must  know,  you  have  a  face,  young  gentleman. 
As  full  of  dialogue  as  my  neice's  here. 

Seb.  In  the  evening  we  shall  have  a  masquerade. 
Which  was  already  intended,  and  will  serve 
To  let  the  whole  tide  of  congratulation 
Come  in  at  once.    A  dance,  a  little  music, 
Hearts  at  their  merriest,  faces  at  their  best. 
And  after  all,  a  look  into  the  Still 
And  smiling  ferment  of  our  starry  hour, 
Whose  ear  is  kissed  with  waters  gently  Spooned, 
Whose  nightingale  is  Love,  shall  give  you  a  taste 
Of  Venice  to  the  core. 


Orders  received  by  the  Booksellers,  by  llie  Newsmen,  and  by  the  Publislier,  Joseph  Appleyard, 

No.  19,  Catherine-street,  Strand— Price  2d. 

Printed  by  C.  H.  Reynell,  No.  4&,  Broad-street,  GoMen-square. 


THE    INDICATOR. 

•J  ti  iijdm  ii  a.»i„       ,     •      . 

,^  _      '  ^  There  he  arriving  round  about  doth  flie, 

'    ''^   '  ■.  ■"        ^And  takes  survey  with  busie,  curious  eye: 
Now  this,  now  that,  he  tasteth  tenderly. 
.    .  .   ,.  Spenser. 


a'Jt 


No.  XXII.— WEDNESDAY,  MARCH  8th,  1820. 


HATS,  NEW  AND  ANCIENT. 

We  know  not  what  will  be  thought  of  our  taste  in  so  important  a 
matter,  but  we  must  confess  \te  are  not  fond  of  a  new  hat.  There 
is  a  certain  insolence  about  it :  it  seems  to  value  itself  upon  it's 
jB'ni^hed  appearance,  and  to  .presume  upon  our  liking  before  we  are 
acquainted  with  it.  In  the .  first  place,  it  comes  home  more  like  a 
marmot  or  some  other  living  creature^  than  a  manufacture.  It  is 
boxed  up,  and  wrapt  in  silver  paper,  and  brought  delicately.  It  iS: 
as"'sle^'  aff  a  lap-dog.  '  The'ii  we  .axe  ta  take  it  «ijt  'as  niceljj,' Vatjcj 
people  ai'e.  to  wonder  how  We  shall,  look  i'ri  it'.  Jllaria  twitches  one' 
this  way,  and  Sophia  that,  and  Caroline  that,  and  Catharine  t'other. 
We  have  the  difficult  task,  all  the  while,  of  looking  easy,. till  the  ap- 
proving Votes  are  pronounced  :  our  only  resource  (which  is  also  dif- 
ficult) is  to  say  good  things  to  aU.  four  5  or  to  clap  the  hat  upon  each 
of ■  their  heads,  and  see  what  pretty  milk-women  they  make.  At 
last  the  approving  votes  are  pronounced ;  and  (provided  .it  is  fine) 
we  noay  go,.fort:h.'^.  But  how  uneasy  the  sensation  about  theTiead! 
ttow  tinlike  the  (GKL  hat,  to  which,  we,  had  become  used,  and  which 
must  now  make  .way  for  this,  fop'  of  a  stranger  !  Wie'  might  do  what 
we  liked  with  the  former.  .  Dust,  rain,  a  gale  of  wind,  a  fall,  a 
squqeZe,— nothilftg  affected  it.  It  was  a  true  friend,  a  friend  for  all 
weathers.,  '  It's  appearance  only  was  a:gainst  it:  in  every  thing  else 
it  was  ;+h'i  Viet ter  for  wear. .  But  if  the  roads  or  the  streets  are  too 
4*yr'^h^  'nev?  hat  is  lifraid  of  getting  dusty  :  if  there  is  v/ind^  and  it 
i£f'.llt>t  tjg'htj  it  uiay  \jc  bJjDwn  off  into  the  dirt:  wp  may, have  to 
s6ria|jhble'art'ei^  it  thypligh  dust  or  mudj  just  rjeaching- it* with  our 
{i^g6fs,r  only  to"  see  it  blown  away  again.  And  if  rain  comes  brt!' 
Oh  y'e  gallant  apprentices,  who  have  issued  forth  on  a  Sunday  mornr^ 
in^,  tyrtji  Jane  or'Saiaan,  careless  either  of  storms  at  night-fall,  pPv 
toils  and  scoldings  hext  day  !  Ye,  who  have  received  your  new  hat  aij^  j 
boots  but  an  hour  before  ye  set /put;  and  ttien  isgiie  forth  triiiin- 
phantiy,  the  charrhir  by  your  side  T  Sfhe,  witK  arin  in  yours,  arid 


iro  THE  INDICATOR. 

handkerchief  in  hand,  blushing,  or  eating  gingerbread,  trips  on : 
ye,  admiring,  trudge :  we  ask  ye,  whether  love  itself  has  prevented 
ye  from  feeling  a  certain  fearful  consciousness  of  that  crowning  glory, 
the  new  and  glossy  hat,  when  the  first  drops  of  rain  announce  the 
coming  of  a  shower?  Ah,  hasten,  while  yet  it  is  of  use  to  haste  j  ereyet 
the  spotty  horror  fixes  on  the  nap  !  Out  with  the  protecting  hand- 
kerchief, which  tied  round  the  hat,  and  flowing  off  in  a  corner  be- 
hind, shall  gleam  through  the  thickening  night  like  a  suburb  comet! 
Trust  not  the  tempting  yawn  of  stable-yard  or  gate-way,  or  the  im- 
possible notion  of  a  coach!  The  rain  will  continue ;  and  alas  !  ye 
are  not  so  rich  as  in  the  morning.  Hasten !  or  think  of  a  new  hat's 
becoming  a  rain-spout !  Think  of  it's  well-built  crown,  it's  graceful 
and  well-measured  fit,  the  curved-up  elegance  of  it's  rim,  it's  sha- 
dowing gentihty  when  seen  in  front,  it's  arching  grace  over  the  ear 
when  beheld  sideways  !  Think  of  it  also  the  next  day !  How  altered, 
how  dejected ! 

How  changed  from  him, 
That  life  of  measure,  and  that  soul  of  rina  '. 

Think  of  the  paper-like  change  of  it's  consistence ;  of  it's  limp  sad- 
ness,— it's  confused  and  flattened  nap,  and  of  that  polished  and  per- 
fect circle,   which  neither  brush  nor  hot  iron  shall  restore ! 

We  have  here  spoken  of  the  beauties  of  a  new  hat ;  but  abstract- 
edly considered,  they  are  very  problematical.  Fashion  makes  beauty 
for  a  time.  Our  ancestors  found  a  grace  in  the  cocked  hats  now  con- 
fined to  beadles,  Chelsea  Pensioners,  and  coachmen.  They  would  have 
laughed  at  our  chimney-tops  with  a  border ;  though  upon  the  whole 
we  do  think  them' the  more  graceful  of  the  two.  The  best  modern 
covering  for  the  head  was  the  imitation  of  the  broad  Spanish  hat  in 
use  about  thirty  years  back,  when  Mr.  Stothard  made  his  designs  for 
the  Novelist's  Magazine.  But  in  proportion  as  society  has  been  put 
into  a  bustle,  our  hats  seem  to  have  narrowed  their  dimensions  :  the 
flaps  were  clipped  off  more  and  more  till  they  became  a  rim ;  and 
now  the  rim  has  contracted  to  a  mere  nothing ;  so  that  what  with  our 
close  heads  and  our  tight  succinct  mode  of  dress,  we  look  as  if  we 
were  intended  for  nothing  but  to  dart  backwards  ""nd  forwards  on 
matters  of  business,  with  as  little  hLv  ranee  to  each  other  as  possible. 

This  -nay  give  us  a  greater  distaste  to  the  hsit  than  it  deserves ; 
but  good-looking  or  not,  we  know  of  no  situation  in  which  a  new  one 
can  be  said  to  be  useful.  We  have  seen  how  the  case  is  during  bad 
weather :  but  if  the  weather  is  in  the  finest  condition  possible,  with 
neither  rain  nor  dust,  there  may  be  a  hot  sunsh!.:ej  and  then  the  hat 
is  too  narrow  to  shade  us  :  no  great  evil,  it  in  trup.  1  but  we  must 
have  our  pique  out  against  the  knave,  and  turn  him  to  the  only 
account  in  our  power : — we  must  write  upon  him.  For  every  other 
purpose,  we  hold  him  as  naught.  The  only  place  a  new  hat  can  be 
carried  into  with  safety,  is  a  church ;  for  there  is  plenty  of  room 
there.  There  also  takes  place  it's  only  union  of  the  ornamental  with 
the  useful,  if  so  it  is  to  be  called  : — we  allude  to  the  preparatozy  eja- 
culation whispered  into  it  by  the  genteel  worshipper,  before  he  turns 


THE  INDICATOR.  171 

round  and  makes  a  bow  to  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Jones  and  the  Miss  Thomp- 
sons. There  is  a  formula  for  this  occasion ;  and  doubtless  it  is  often 
used,  to  say  nothing  of  extempore  effusions  : — but  there  are  wicked 
imaginations,  who  suspect  that  instead  of  devouter  whisperings,  the 
communer  with  his  lining  sometimes  ejaculates  no  more  than  Swal- 
low, St.  James's-street ;  or,  Aiigarde  and  Spain,  Hatters,  No.  51, 
Oxford-street,  London  : — after  which  he  draws  up  hio  head  with 
infinite  gravity  and  preparation,  and  makes  the  gentle  recognition 
aforesaid. 

But  wherever  there  is  a  crowd,  the  new  hat  is  worse  than  useless. 
It  is  a  pity  that  the  general  retrenchment  of  people's  finances  did 
away  with  the  flat  opera  hat,  which  was  a  very  sensible  thing.  The 
round  one  is  only  in  the  way.  The  matting  over  the  floor  of  the 
Opera  does  not  hinder  it  from  getting  dusty ;  not  to  mention  it's 
chance  of  a  kick  from  the  inconsiderate.  But  from  the  pit  of  the 
other  theatres,  you  may  bring  it  away  covered  with  saw-dust,  or 
rubbed  up  all  the  wrong  way  of  the  nap,  or  monstrously  squeezed 
into  a  shapeless  lump.  The  least  thing  to  be  expected  in  a  pressure^ 
is  a  great  poke  in  it's  side  like  a  sunken  cheek. 

Boating  is  a  mortal  enemy  to  new  hats.'  A  shower  has  you  fast  in 
a  common  boat ;  or  a  sail-line,  or  an  inexperienced  oar,  may  knock 
the  hat  off;  and  then  fancy  it  tilting  over  the  water  with  the  tide, 
soaked  all  the  while  beyond  redemption,  and  escaping  from  the  tips 
of  your  outstretched  fingers,  while  you  ought  all  to  be  pulling  the 
contrary  way  home. 

But  of  all  wrong  boxes  for  a  new  hat,  avoid  a  mail-coach.  If  you 
keep  it  on,  you  will  begin  nodding  perhaps  at  midnight,  and  then  it 
goes  jamming  against  the  side  of  the  coach,  to  the  equal  misery  of  it's 
nap  and  your  own.  If  you  take  it  off,  where  is  it's  refuge  ?  Will  the 
clergyman  take  the  least  heed  of  it,  who  is  snoring  comfortably  in 
one  corner  in  his  nightcap  ?  Or  will  the  farmer,  jolting  about  inex- 
orably .''  Or  the  regular  traveller,  who  in  his  fur-cap  and  infinite 
knowledge  of  highway  conveniences,  has  already  beheld  it  with  con- 
tempt ?  Or  the  old  market-woman,  whom  it  is  in  vain  to  request  to 
be  tendei"  ?  Or  the  young  damsel,  who  wonders  how  you  can  think 
of  sleeping  in  such  a  thing?  In,  the  morning,  you  suddenly  miss  your 
hat,  and  ask  after  it  with  trepidation.  The  traveller  smiles.  They  all 
move  their  legs,  but  know  nothing  of  it ;  till  the  market-woman 
exclaims,  "  Deary  nie  !  Well  -  lord,  only  think  !  A  hat,  is  it.  Sir  ? 
Why  I  do  believe, — but  I'm  sure  I  never  thought  o'such  a  thing  more 
than  the  child  unborn. — that  it  must  be  a  hat  then  which  I  took  for 
a  pan  I've  been  a  buying ;  and  so  I've  had  my  warm  foot  in  it.  Lord 
bless  us,  ever  since  five  o'clock  this  blessed  morning  !" 

It  is  but  fair  to  add  that  we  happen  to  have  an  educated  antipathy  to 
the  hat.  At  our  school  no  hats  were  worn,  and  the  cap  was  too  small  to 
be  a  substitute.  It's  only  use  is  to  astonish  the  old  ladies  in  the  street, 
who  wonder  how  so  small  a  thing  can  be  kept  on  j  and  to  this  end, 
it  used  to  be  rubbed  into  the  back  or  side  of  the  head,  .'^here  it  hung 


172  THE  INDICATOR. 

like  a  worsted  wonder.  It  is  after  the  fashion  of  Catharine'5  cap  in 
the  play  :  it  seems  as  if 

Moulded  on  a  poringer : 
Why,  'tis  a  cockle,  or  a  walnut-shell, 
A  knack,  a  toy,  a  trick,  a  baby's  can ; 
A  custard  coffin,  a  bauble.  W 

But  we  may  not  add ; 

I  love  thee  well,  in  that  thou  lik'st  it  not. 

Ill  befall  us,  if  we  ever  dislike  any  thing  about  thee,  old  nurse  of 
our  childhood  !  How  independent  of  the  weather,  used  we  to  feel  in 
our  old  friar's  dress, — our  thick  shoes,  yellow  worsted  stockings,  and 
coarse  long  coat  or  gown  !  Our  cap  was  oftener  in  our  hand  than  on 
our  head,  let  the  weather  be  what  it  wotild.  We  felt  a  pride  as 
well  as  pleasure,  when  every  body  else  was  hunying  thiough  the 
streets,  in  receiving  the  full  summer  showers  with  uncovered  poll, 
sleeking  our  glad  hair  like  the  feathers  of  a  bird. 

It  must  be  said  for  hats  in  general,  that  they  are  a  very  ancient 
part  of  dress,  perhaps  the  most  ancient  j  for  a  negro  who  has  nothing 
else  upon  him,  sometimes  finds  it  necessary  to  guard  off  the  sun 
with  a  hat  of  leaves  or  straw.  The  Chinese,  who  carry  their  records 
farther  back  than  any  other  people,  are  a  hatted  race,  both  narrow- 
brimmed  and  broad.  We  are  apt  to  think  of  the  Greeks  as  a  bare- 
headed people  3  and  they  liked  to  be  soj  but  they  had  hats  for  jour- 
neying in,  such  as  may  be  seen  on  the  statues  of  Mercury,  who  was 
the  god  of  travellers.  They  were  large  and  flapped,  and  were  some- 
times fastened  round  under  the  chin  like  a  lady's  straw-bonnet.  The 
Eastern  nations  generally  wore  turbans,  and  do  still,  with  the  excep- 
tion of  the  Persians,  who  have  exchanged  them  for  large  conical 
caps  of  felt.  The  Romans  copied  the  Greeks  in  their  dress,  as  in 
every  thing  else  j  but  the  poorer  orders  woie  a  cap  like  their  boasted 
Phrygian  ancestors,  resembing  the  one  which  the  reader  may  now 
see  about  the  streets  upon  the  busts  of  Canova's  Paris,  The  others 
would  put  their  robes  about  their  heads  upon  occasion, — a  custom 
which  probably  gave  rise  to  the  hoods  of  the  middle  ages,  and  to  the 
cloth  head-dresses  which  we  see  in  the  portraits  of  Dante  and  Pe- 
trarch. From  these  were  taken  the  draperies  on  the  heads  of  our 
old  Plantagenet  kings  and  of  Chaucer.  The  velvet  cap  which  suc- 
ceeded, appears  also  to  have  come  from  Italy,  as  in  the  portraits  of 
Raphael  and  Titian:  and  it  would  probably  have  continued  till  the 
French  times  of  Charles  the  Second,  for  our  ancestors  up  to  that 
period  were  always  great  admirers  of  Italy,  had  not  Philip  the  Second 
of  Spain  cOme  over  to  marry  our  Queen  Mary.  The  extreme 
heats  of  Spain  had  forced  the  natives  upon  taking  to  that  ingenious, 
union  of  the  hat  and  umbrella,  still  known  by  the  name  of  the  Span- 
ish hat.  We  know  not  whether  Philip  himself  wore  it.  His  father, 
Charles  the  Fifth,  who  was  at  the  top  of  the  world,  is  represented  as 
delighting  in  a  little  humble-looking  cap.  But  we  conceive  it  was 
either  from  Philip,  or  some  gentleman  in  his  train,  that  the  hat  and 


THE  INDICATOR.  173 

feather  succeeded  among  us  to  the  cap  and  jewels  of  Henry  the  8th. 
The  ascendancy  of  Spain  in  these  times  carried  it  into  other  parts  qf 
Europe.  The  French,  not  requiring  so  ninch  shade  fronj  the  sun^ 
and  always  playing  with  and  altering  their  dress,  like  a  child  with 
his  toy,  first  covered  the  brim  with  feathers,  then  gave  them  a  pinch 
in  front ;  then  casme  Riches  up  at  the  side ;  and  at  last  appeared  the 
fierce  and  ti  iple-during  cocked  hat.  This  disappeared  in  our  child- 
hood, or  only  survived  among  the  military,  the  old,  and  the  reverend, 
who  could  not  willingly  part  with  their  habitual  dignity.  An  old 
beau  or  so  would  also  retain  it,  in  memory  of  it's  victories  when 
young.  We  remember  it's  going  away  from  the  heads  of  the  foot- 
guards.  The  heavy  dragoons  retained  it  till  very  lately.  It  is 
now  almost  sunk  into  the  mock-heroic,  and  confined,  as  we  before 
observed,  to  beadles  and  coachmen,  &c.  The  modern  clerical  beaver, 
agreeably  to  the  deliberation  with  which  our  establishments  depart 
frpm  old  custom,  is  a  cocked  hat  with  the  hind  flap  let  down,  and 
only  a  slight  pinch  remaining  in  front.  This  is  what  is  worn  also 
by  the  judges,  the  lawyers  being  of  clerical  extraction.  Still  how- 
ever the  true  cocked-hat  lingers  here  and  there  with  a  solitairy  old 
gentleman;  and  wherever  it  appears  in  such  company,  begets  a  cer- 
tain retrospective  reverence.  There  was  a  somethijfig  in  it's  con- 
nexion with  the  high-bred  drawing-room  times  of  the  J 7th  century; 
in  the  gallant  though  quaint  ardour  of  it's  look  j  and  in  it's  being 
lifted  up  in  salutations  with  that  deliberate  loftiness,  the  arm  arching 
up  in  front  and  slowly  raising  it  by  the  front  angle  with  finger  and 
thumb, — that  could  not  easily  die.  We  remember,  when  our  steward  at 
school,  remarkable  for  his  inflexible  air  of  precision  and  dignity,  left 
off"  his  cocked  hat  for  a  round  one,  there  was,  undoubtedly,  though 
we  dared  only  half  confess  it  to  our  minds,  a  sort  of  diminished 
majesty  about  him.  His  infinite  self-possession  began  to  look  re- 
motely finite.  His  Crown-Imperial  was  a  little  blighted.  It  was 
like  divesting  a  column  of  it's  capital.  But  the  native  stateliness 
was  there,  informing  the  new  hat.     He 

Had  not  yet  lost 
yill  his  original  beaver  ;  nor  appeared 
Less  than  arch-ste'vvard  ruined,  and  the  excess 
Of  glory  obscured. 

The  late  Emperor  Paul  had  conceived  such  a  sense  of  the  dignity  of 
the  cocked  hat,  aggravated  by  it's  having  given  way  to  the  round  one 
of  the  French  republicans,  that  he  ordered  all  persons  in  his  domin- 
ions never  to  dare  be  seen  in  public  with  round  hats,  upon  pain  of 
being  knouted  and  sent  to  Siberia. 

Hats,  being  the  easiest  part  of  the  European  dress  to  be  taken  off, 
are  doffed  among  us  out  of  reverence.  The  Orientals,  on  the  same 
account,  put  off"  their  slippers  instead  of  turbans ;  which  is  the  rea- 
son why  the  Jews  still  keep  their  heads  covered  during  worship. 
The  Spanish  grandees  have  the  privilege  of  wearing  their  hats  in  the 
royal  presence,  probably  in  commemoration  of  the  fiee  spirit  in 
which  the  Cortes  used  to  crown  tht?  sovereign;  telling  him  (we  sup- 


174  THE  INDICATOR. 

pose  in  their  corporate  capacity)  that  they  were  better  men  than  he, 
but  chose  him  of  their  own  free  will  for  their  master.  The  grandees 
only  claim  to  be  as  good  men,  unless  their  families  are  older.  There 
is  a  well-known  story  of  a  picture,  in  which  the  Virgin  Mary  is  re- 
presented with  a  label  coming  out  of  her  mouth,  saying  to  a  Spanish 
gentleman,  who  has  politely  taken  off  his  hat,  "  Cousin,  be  co- 
vered." But  the  most  interesting  anecdote  connected  with  a  hat, 
belongs  to  the  family  of  the  De  Courcys,  Lord  Kinsale.  One  of  their 
ancestois,  at  an  old  period  of  our  history,  having  overthrown  a  huge 
and  insolent  champion,  who  had  challenged  the  whole  court,  was 
desired  by  the  king  to  ask  him  some  special  favour.  He  requested 
that  his  descendants  should  have  the  privilege  of  keeping  their  heads 
covered  in  the  royal  presence  j  and  they  do  so  to  this  day.  The  new 
lord,  we  believe,  always  comes  to  court  on  purpose  to  vindicate  his 
right.  We  have  heard,  that  on  the  last  occasion,  probably  after  a 
long  interval,  some  of  the  courtiers  thought  it  might  as  well  have 
been  dispensed  with  ;  which  was  a  foolish  as  well  as  a  jealous  thing : 
for  these  exceptions  only  prove  the  royal  rule.  The  Spanish  gran- 
dees originally  took  their  privilege  instead  of  receiving  it  3  but  when 
the  spirit  of  it  had  gone,  their  covered  heads  were  only  so  many  in- 
tense recognitions  of  the  king's  dignity,  which  it  was  thought  such  a 
mighty  thing  to  resemble.  A  Quaker's  hat  is  a  more  formidable 
thing  than  a  grandee's. 


THE  INFANT  HERCULES  AND  THE  SERPENTS. 
Translated  from  the  2ith  Idyll  of  Theocritus. 

Jupiter  having  taken  Amphitryon's  shape  during  the  absence  of 
that  hero  in  the  wars,  begot  Hercules  of  his  wife  Alcmena.  The 
husband,  when  the  circumstance  came  to  his  knowledge,  felt  nothing 
but  a  generous  pride  at  the  deity's  admiration  of  his  beloved  wife  j 
and  with  all  care  and  tenderness  brought  up  the  infant  demi-god 
with  his  own  twin  son  Iphiclus.  But,  Juno's  feelings  were  not  so 
godlike  as  the  mortal's.  She  laid  various  plans  for  the  destruction  of 
this  new  child  of  her  husband's  ;  and  among  others,  sent  two  dreadful 
serpents  at  midnight  to  devour  it.  This  is  the  subject  of  the  present 
idyll,  which  in  the  original  is  exceedingly  fine  and  real,  and  shews 
that  Theocritus  had  a  -perception  of  grandeur  becoming  his  deep 
insight  into  nature  in  general.  We  have  seen  an  outline  after  a  pic- 
ture of  this  story  by  one  of  the  Caracci,  which  must  be  very  noble ; 
though  his  Hercules  seems  to  retain  too  little  of  the  unconscious 
baby.  His  look  is  too  full  of  intention.  The  poet  has  preserved  an 
admirable  propriety  in  this  respect. 

Young  Hercules  had  now  beheld  the  light 
Only  ten  months,  when  once,  upon  a  night, 
Alcmena  having  washed,  and  giv'n  the  breast 
To  both  her  heavy  boj^,  laid  them  to  rest. 


THE  INDICATOR.  .  175 

Their  cradle  was  a  noble  sh  ield  of  brass 
Won  by  her  lord  from  slaughtered  Pterelas. 
Gently  she  laid  them  down,  aud  gently  laid 
Her  hand  on  both  their  heads,  and  yeaped,  and  said, 
"  Sleep,  sleep,  my  boys,  a  light  and  pleasant  sleep  : 
My  little  souls,  my  twins,  my  guard  and  keep  ! 
Sleep  happy,  and  wake  happy  !"     And  she  kept 
Rocking  the  mighty  buckler,  and  they  slept. 

At  midnight, — when  the  Bear  went  down,  and  broad 
Orion's  shoulder  lit  the  starry  road, 
There  came,  careering  through  the  opening  halls. 
On  livid  spires,  two  dreadful  animals. 
Serpents  ;  whom  Juno,  threatening  as  she  drove. 
Had  sent  there  to  devour  the  boy  of  Jove. 
Orbing  their  blood-fed  bellies  in  and  out. 
They  towered  along ;  and  as  they  looked  about. 
An  evil  fire  out  of  their  eyes  came  lamping : 
A  heavy  poison  dropt  about  their  champing. 

And  now  they  have  arrived,  and  think  to  fall 
To  their  dread  meal,  when  lol  (for  Jove  sees  all) 
The  house  is  lit,  as  with  the  morning's  break. 
And  the  dear  children  of  Alcmena  wake. 
The  younger  one,  as  soon  as  he  beheld 
The  evil  creatures  coming  on  the  shield,  ^ 

And  saw  their  loathsome  teeth,  began  to  cry 
And  shriek,  and  kick  away  the  clothes,  and  try 
All  his  poor  little  instincts  of  escape : — 
The  other,  grappling,  seized  them  by  the  nape 
Of  either  poisonous  neck,  for  all  their  twists. 
And  held,  like  iron,  in  it's  little  fists. 
Buckled  and  bound  he  held  them,  struggling  wild ; 
And  so  they  wound  about  the  boy,  the  child, 
The  long-begetting  boy,  the  suckling  dear. 
That  never  teazed  his  nurses  with  a  tear. 

Tired  out  at  length,  they  trail  their  spires,  and  gasp. 
Locked  in  that  young  indissoluble  grasp. 

Alcmena  heard  the  noise,  and  "Wake,"  she  cried, 
"  Amphitryon,  wake ;  for  terror  holds  me  tied! 
Up ;  stay  not  for  tbe  sandals :  hark !  the  child —  _ 
The  youngest — how  he  shrieks!   The  babe  is  wild! 
And  see  the  walls  and  windows !  'Tis  as  light 
As  if  'twere  day,  and  yet  'tis  surely  night. 
There's  something  dreadful  in  the  house ;  there  is 
Indeed,  dear  husband !" — He  arose  at  this ; 
And  seized  his  noble  sword,  which  overhead 
Was  always  Hanging  at  the  cedar-bed : 
The  hilt  he  grasped  in  one  band,  and  the  sheath 
In  t'other,  and  drew  forth  the  blade  of  death. 

All  in  an  instant,  like  a  stroke  of  doom. 
Returning  midnight  smote  upon  the  room. 

Amphitryon  called ;  and  woke  from  heavy  sleep 
His  household,  who  lay  breathing  hard  and  deep. 
"  Bring  lights  here  from  the  hearth  ;  lights,  lights ;  and  guard 
The  doorways.  Rise,  ye  ready  labourers  hard!" 

He  said ;  and  lights  came  pouring  in;  and  all 
The  busy  house  was  up  in  bower  and  hall. 
'But  when  they  saw  the  little  suckler,  how 
-He  grasped  the  monsters,  and  with  Earnest  brow 


176  THE  INDICATOR. 

Kept  beating  them  together,  plaything-wise, 
They  shrieked  aloud;  but  he,  with  laughing  eyes, 
Soon  as  he  saw  Amphitryon,  leaped  and  sprung. 
Childlike,  and  at  his  feet  the  dead  disturbers  flung. 

Then  did  Alcmena  to  her  bosom  take 
Her  feebler  boy,*  who  could  not  cease  to  shake. 
The  other  son  Amphytrion  took,  and  laid 
Beneath  a  fleece;  and  so  returned  to  bed. 

Soon  as  the  coci<,  with  his  thrice-echoing  chear, 
Proclaimed  the  gladcess  of  the  day  was  near, 
Alcmena  sent  for  old,  truth-uttering 
Tiresias;  and  she  told  him  all  this  thing. 
And  bade  liim  say  what  she  fnight  think  and  do: 
"  Nor  do  thou  fear,"  said  she,  "  to  let.nie  know. 
Although  the  mighty  gods  should  meditate 
Aught  ill ;  for  man  can  never  fly  from  Fate. 
'  And  thus  thou  seest"  (arid  here  her  smiling  eyes 
Looked  through  a  blush)  "  how  well  1  teach  the  wise." 

So  spoke  the  queen.  Then  he,  with  glad  old  tone: — 
"  Be  of  good  heart,  thou  blessed  bearing  one. 
True  blood  of  Perseus:  for  by  my  swe6t  sight, 
Which  once  divided  these  poor  lids  with  light, 
(  Many  Greek  women,  as  they  sit  aJid  weave 

The  gentle  thread  across  their  knees  at  eve> 
Shall  sing  of  thee  and  thy  beloved  name: 
Thou  shall  be  blest  by  every  Argive  dame  : 
For  unto  this  thy  son  it  shall  be  given 
With  his  broad  heart  to  win  his  way  to  heaven: 
Twelve  labours  shall  he  work  ;  and  all  accurst 
And  brutal  things  o'erthrow,  brute  men  the  worst: 
And  in  Trachynia  shall  the  funeral  pyre 
Purge  bis  mortalities  away  with  fire  ; 
And  he  shall  mount  amid  the  stars,  and  be 
Acknowledged  kin  to  those  who  envied  thtfe. 
And  sent  these  den-born  shapes  to  crush  his  destiny." 

*  Liberally,  the  extremely  bilious  [phielus,:— ax/Ja^oXov  iptnT^-na.  The  ancients 
are  accused  of  being  too  bodily  and  superficial  in  their  philosophy.  It  was  one 
of  the  advantages  however  of  their  attention  to  these  exoterical  matters,  that  they 
never  lost  sight  of  the  connexion  between  mind  and  body,  and  their  mutual 
healthiness,  beauty,  and  power  ; — a  part  of  wisdom  which  our  modern  psychoso- 
phists  are  so  apt  to  forget. 


TO    C0RRESPOli^i)E]SrTS. 


In  removing  a  quantity  of  papers,  we  have  unfortunately  mislaid  some  letters 
from  correspondents.  We  hope  to  recover  thern ;  but  should  we  still  be  dis- 
appointed, the  writers  will  perhaps  have  the  goodness  to  loblige  us  with  otlier 
copies.  We  have  not  forgotten  the  substance  however  of  some  of  them  ;  and 
least  of  all,  what  was  so  good-naturedly  said  upon  the  article  on  the  Heathen 
Mythology.         .  ■       ^  _..,,' ^  ,J  r  ;;,    .,._,_ 


Orders  received  by  the  Newsmefij.by  the  Bpoksdlprs.and  by  the  Publisher,  Joseph  Appleyard, 
No.  19,  Catherine-street,  Strand. Price  2d,  ' 

Printtd  by  C.  H.  Reynell,.No.  46,  Broad-itreet,  Golden-fviare- 


THE    I ND  I  CAT  OR. 


There  he  arriving  round  about  doth  flip, ' 
Arvil  takes. survp\  with  busie  rurioiis  eye  : 
Kow  thib,  now  that,  he.  tasteth  tcudeily. 

SrENSER. 


No.  XXIII.— WEDNESDAY,  MARCH  15th,  1820. 


LADY'S  MAID*.— SEAMEN  ON  -SHORE.  .       ■ 

Tnp  sole  business  of  a  seaman  on  shore,  who  has  to  go  to  sea  again, 
is  to  take  as  much  pleasure  as  he  can.-  The  moment  he  sets  his  foot 
on  dry-ground,  he  turns  his  back  on  all  salt-beef  and  other  salt-water 
restrictions.  His  long  abspnce,  and  the  impossibility  of  getting  land 
pleasures  at  sea,  put  him  upon  a  sort  of  desperate  appetite.  He  lands, 
like  a  conqueror  taking  possession.  He  has  been  debarred  so  long, 
that  he  is  resolved  to  have  that  matter  out  with  the  inhabitants.  They 
must  render  an  account  to  him  of  their  treasures,  their  women,  their 
TJctualling-stores,  their  entertainments,  their  every  thing;  and. in  re- 
turn he  will  behave  like  a  gentleman,  and  scatter  his  gold. 

And  first  of  the  Common  Sailor. — The  moment  the  Common  Sailor 
lands,  he  goes  to  see  the  watchmaker,  or  the  old  boy  at  the  Ship. 

Readeh.  What,  Sir?  Before  his  mistress  ? 
.  Indigator.    Excuse  me.  Madam.     His  mistress,  christened  Eliza* 
teth  Monson,  but  more  familiarly  known  by  the  appellation  of  Bet 
Mo'nson,  has  been  with  hira  already.     You  remember  the  ballad—- 
When  black-eyed  Susan  came  on  board. 

Lady's  Maid.  I  hope.  Sir,  you  are  not  going  to  be  vulgar  in  your 
remarks. 

Indic.  Good  God,  Mrs.  Jane,  why  should  you  think  so !  I  am. 
sure  your  lady  does  not  expect  it,  or  I  should  have  had  none  but  men. 
for  listeners  on  this  subject. 

Lady's  M.   Oh,  Sir,  if  my  lady  does  not  think  it  vulgar,  I'm  Sure 
I  shan't;  for  there  isn't  a  more  delicater  nor  more  genteeler  persoa* 
than  my  lady  in  all  England,  though  I  say  it  to  her  face  who  shouldn^t. 
Biit  you  mentioned  something  about  alehouses,  or  inns,  or  something; 
and  you  know  they  are  rather  vulgar. 

Indic.  I'm  sure,  Mrs.  Jane,  I  didn't  think  so,  three  years  back, 
when  you  handed  me  that  frothed  glass  of  porter,  with  your  pretty 
fingers,  oil  ^^  hot  summer's  day,  under  the  great  elm-tree  there,  at  the 
door  of  the  Jolly  Miller. 

.*  The  great  clianges  produced  in  people's  fortunes  by  the  nature  of  the  times, 
have  unfortunatel]^  rendered  this  title  but  too  common  to  a  great  variety  of  females; 
ihany  of  whom  will  not  at  all  come  under  our  present  description.  The  Lady's 
Jiaid  in  the  lexl  is  heiress  to  the  Honours  and  Mrs.  Slipslops  of  the  last  century. 


IfB  .  THE  INDICATOR. 

Lady's  M;  Lard  in  heaven,  Mr.  HindergaifeF,  why  f  vow  you're 
a  witch!  Who'd  have  thought  you'd  have  ever  knoWn  that  I  kept  my 
father-in-law's  house  for  him,  while  my  poor  mother  was  laid  up  with 
the  rheumatizr^  all  along  of  that  vixen  (God  forgive  me!)  my  own 
great  aunt,  who  wouldn't  let  her  come  home  one  night  in  the  shay, 
because  she  had  married  Tom  Butts  after  being  the  wife  of  a  Serjeant 
of  Dragoons.  And  yet  I  must  say  for  Mr.  Rutts,  that.for  a  landlord, 
and  a  man  in  a  vulgarish  situation,  he  was  as  well-behaved  a  man 
though  a  bold  one,  and  might  hold  up  his  head  as  high,  and  was  as 
kind  and  good-natured,  and  was  as  free  from  pride,  arid  said  as  civ^il 
things  to  a  body 

Lady.  In  short,  Jane,  he  was  not  vulgar,  and  yoxir  dear  old  vixen 
of  a  great  aunt  was.  There  is  no  vulgarity,  child,  but  impertinence 
and  common  cant  ;  or  being  gross  and  ignorant,  and  proud  of  both  y 
or  having  a  feeling  for  all,  and  being  ashamed  of  it.  Remember  the 
ragged  sailor  whom  you  kissed. 

Lady's  M.  Lord,  Ma'am,  and  did  you  see  me  kiss  my  poor  bro- 
ther William  ?  For  it  was  my  own  brother.  Ma'am,  who  you've' 
heard  me  speak  of — in  the  navy  ;  and  he  was  so  ragged  then,  because 
he  had  to  cross  the  whole  countr)  to  his  home,  and  had  spent  all  his- 
money  at  Portsmouth ;  and  so  I  gave  him  my  box  of  half-crowns^  and 
he's  now  captain's  clerk's  man,  and  it  was  he  as  sent  me  that  live  tor- 
toise that  made  me  scream  so,  and  the  cocoa-cup,  and  the  shawl,  and 
the  purse  made  of  gra«s,  and  the  Hoty-hity  feathers  ;  and  I  do  think,  if 
he  was  here,  I  could  kiss  him  again,  if  he  was  as  ragged  as  a  rag-or-a- 
muffin,  before  all  the  world,  aye^  even  before  Sally  Jones. 

Indic.  Good.  Now  there  you  come  round,  Mrs.  Jane,  to  the  true 
point  of  politeness.  I  thought  you  better  bred  than  you  supposed, 
since  I  recollected  how  good-natured  you  looked  at  the  Jolly  Miller. 

Lady's  M.    Ob,  Mr.  Intricater,  you're  such  another  man  ! 

Indic.  Nay,  I  assure  you  I  do  not  think  you  even  more  genteel 
than  you  were  then. 

Lady's  "M.  Nay,  now,  Mr.  Kingy-grater,  I'm  sure  you  flatter. 

Indic.  But  pray,  Mrs.  Jane,  who  is  the  awful  presence  of  Sally 
Jones  J       , 

Lady's  M.  Presents,  Sir?  She  never  gives  no  presents,  lavfful  or 
•unlawful,  not  slie  :  not  for  that  matter  never  gets  none,  as  I  know  of; 
except  mayhap  a  brass-ihimble  at  Christmas,  or  a  two-penny  song- 
book,  or  a  Trifle,  as  they  very  properly  calls  it,  from  Margate,  witlt 
a  piecif"  of  looking-glass  in  the  inside,  to  see  her  proud,  affected,  niminy- 
piminy  face  in. 

Indic.  But  why  should  sKe  object  to  your  kissing  your  brother 
William? 

Lady's  M.  Oh,  forsooth,  it's  vulgar,  Sir  !  So  she  said,  when  I  kissed 
him  before  her  once  ;  as  if  one's  brother  was'nt  one's  brother  ;  and  as 
for  that,  she'd  kiss  her  cousin  fast  enough  before  twenty  people,  if  he'd 
make  any  thing  like  an  advantage.  She  is  but  a  maid  at  boarding- 
school,  where  I  was ;  and  never  writes  Miss  on  my  letters  ;  and  yet 
whenever  she  goes  hGn>e  to  her  father's,  who  is  nothing  but  a  littlei 
petty  green-grocer  in  an  alley^  she  insists,  forsooth,  on  my  Missingand 


THE  INBICATOR.  i     179 

Missing 'her,  or  she  wont  send  rae  any  news  of  the  private  theatre  ;  and 
and  she  knows  that  vexes  me,  because  I  really  have  a  taste  for  the  stage, 
,and  once  played  second  part  at  school  to  Miss  Gollogher.  Shti 
was  the  Fair  Penitent,  Sir;  a  tall  brown  girl,  horn-bone  pine,  as  the 
French  say  ;  and  a  great  fortune,  though  her  father  did  keep  a  dog- 
shop.  But  she  called  it  a  Managearee.  So,  Sir,  Miss  Sarah  Jones 
never  condescends  to  write  Miss  to  me,  though  she  daredu't  wear  her 
hair  Avithout  a  cap  at  boarding-school,  to  savelier  head  ;  and  my  lady 
always  permits  me  to  wear  my  hair  in  a  comb,  to  distinguish  me  from 
^common  helpers  and  such  like.  4-nd  besides  that,  though  [  have  worn 
a  cap,  I  never  wore  black  worsted  stockings  as  she  does;  nor  never 
•set  mop  upon  floor.     As  to  sailors,  she  cannot  abide  'en. 

Indic.  But  you,  Mrs.  Jane, can  :  and  let  me  t^ll  you,  that  that  is  not 
ithe  least  advantage  which  you  have  over  Miss  Sarah  Jones.  So  we  will 
^o  on  with  our  picture. 

The  first  object  of  the  seaman  on  landing  is  to  spend  his  money :  but 
his  first  sensation  is  the  strange  firmness  of  the  earth,  which  he  goes 
dreading  in  a  sort  of  heavy  light  way,  half  waggoner  and  half  dancing- 
master,  his  shoulders  rolling,  and  his  feet  touching  and  going ;  tlie 
5ame  way,  in  short,  in  which  he  keeps  himself  prepared  for  all  the  rol-; 
ling  chances  of  the  vessel,  when  on  deck.  There  is  always,  to  us,  this 
appearance  of  lightness  of  foot  and  heavy  strength  of  upper  works,  in  a, 
sailor.  And  he  feels  it  himself.  He  lets  his  jacket  fly  open,  and  his 
shoulders  slouch,  and  his  hair  grow  long  to  be  gathered  into  a  heavy 
pigtail ;  but  when  full  dressed,  he  prides  himself  on  a  certain  gentility 
.of  toe;  on  a  white  stocking  and  a  natty  shoe,  issuing  lightly  out  of  the 
flowing  blue  trowser.  His  arms  are  neutral,  hanging  and  swinging  in  a 
jcurve  aloof;  his  hands,  half  open,  look  as  if  they  had  just  been 
handling  ropes,  and  had  no  object  in  life  but  to  handle  them  again.  He 
is  proud  of  appearing  in  a  new  hat  and  slops,  with  a  Belcher  handker-, 
.chief  flowing  loosely  round  his  neck,  and  the  corner  of  another  out  ot 
his  pocket.  Thus  equipped,  with  pinchbeck  buckles  in  his  shoes 
(which  he  bought  for  gold)  he  puts  some  tobacco  in  his  mouth,  not  as  if 
he  were  going  to  use  it  directly,  but  as  if  he  stufltd  it  in  a  pouch  on 
one  side,  as  a  pelican  does  fish,  to  employ  it  hereafter :  and  so,  with 
Bet  Monson  at  his  side,  and  perhaps  a  cane  or  whanghee  twisted  under 
his  other  arm,  sallies  forth  to  take  possession  of  all  Lubberland.  He 
buys  every  thingihat  he  comes  athwart, — nuts,  gingerbread,  apples, 
shoe-strings,  beer,  brandy,  gin,  buckles,  knives,  a  watch,  (two,  if  he 
has  money  enough),  gowns  and  handkerchiefs  for  Bet,  and  his  mother 
and  sisters,  dozens  of  "  Superfine  Best  Men's  Cotton  Stockings," 
dozens  of  '^  Superfine  Best  Women's  Cotton  Ditto,"  best  good  Check 
for  Shirts  (though  he  has  too  much  already),  infinite  needles  and  thread 
(to  sew  hjs  trowsers  with  some  day),  a  footman's  laced  hat,  Bear's 
Grease  to  make  his  hair  grow  (by  way  of  joke,)  several  sticks,  all  sorts 
of  Jew  articles,  a  flute  (which  he  can't  play,  and  never  intends),  a  leg 
of  mutton  which  he  carries  somewhere  to  roast,  and  for  a  piece  of 
whi^h  the  landlord  of  the  Ship  makes  him  pay  twice  what  he  gave  for 
the  whole  ; — in  short,  all  that  money  can  be  spent  upon,  which  is 
every  thing  but  mediciuc  gratis;  and  this  he  would  insist  on  paying 


180  THE  INDICATOR. 

for.  He  would  buy  all  the  painfcd  parrots  on  an  Italian's  head,  ofi 
purpose  to  break  them,  rather  than  not  spend  his  money.  He  has 
fiddles  and  a  dance  at  the  Ship,  with  oceans  of  flip  and  grog  ;  and  gives 
the  blind  fiddler  tobacco  for  sweetmeats,  and  half  a  crown  for  tread- 
ing on  his  toe.  He  asks  the  landlady,  with  a  sigh,  after  her  daughter 
Nance  who  first  fired  his  heart  with  her  silk-stockings;  and  finding 
that  she  is  married  and  in  trouble,  leaves  five  cro\yns  for  her;  which 
the  old  lady  appropriates  as  part  payment  for  a  shilling  in  advance. 
He  goes  to  the  port  playhouse  with  Bet  Mpnson,  and  a  great  red  hand- 
Jcerchief  full  of  apples,  gingerbread  nuts,  and  fresh  beef;  calls  out  for 
the  fiddlers  and  Rule  13ritannia  ;  pelts  Tom  Sikes  in  the  pit ;  and  com- 
pares Othello  to  the  black  ship's  cook  in  his  white  night-cap.  When 
lie  comes  to  London,  he  and  some  messmates  take  a  hackney-coach,  full 
of  Bet  Monsons  and  tobacco-pipes,  and  go  through  the  streets  smoking; 
and  lolling  out  of  window.  He  has  ever  been  cautious  of  ven- 
turing'on  horseback;  and  among  his  other  sights  in  foreign  parts, 
Telates  with  unfeigned  astonishment  how  he  has  seen  the  Turk^ 
yidp, — "  Only,"  says  he,  guarding  against  the  hearer's  incredu- 
lity, "  they  have  saddle-boxes  to  hold  'em  in,  fore  and  aft  ; 
and  shovels  like  for  stirrups.''  He  will  tell  you  how  the  Chinese 
drink,  and  the  Necuus  dance,  and  the  monkies  pelt  you  with 
cocoa-nuts;  and  how  King  Domy  would  have  built  him  a  mud  hut 
and  made  him  a  Peer  of  the  Realm,  if  he  would  have  stopped  with 
hira  and  taught  hiiri  to  make  trowsers.  He  has  q.  sister  at  a  "  School 
for  Young  Ladies,"  who  blushes  with  a  mixture  of  pleasure  and  shame 
'at  his  appearance ;  and  whose  confusion  he  completes,  by  slipping 
four-pence  into  her  hand,  and"  saying  out  loud  that  he  has  ''  no  more 
copper"  about  him.  His  mother  and  elder  sisters  at  home  doat  on  all 
he  says  and  does,  telling  him  however  that  he  is  a  great  sea-fellow, 
and  \Vas  always  wild  ever  since  he  was  a  hop-o'-my-thumb  no  higher 
than  the  window-locker.  He  tells  his  mother  that  she  would  be  a 
Duchess  in  Paranaboo  ;  at  which  the  good  old  portly  dame  laughs  and 
looks  proud.  When  his  sisters  complain  of  his  roniping,  he  says  that 
they  are  pnly  sorj-y  it  is  not  the  baker.  He  frightens  them  with  a 
mask  made  after  the  New  Zealand  fashion,  and  is  forgiven  for  his 
learning.  Their  mantle-piece  is  filled  by  him  with  shells  and  shark's 
teeth;  and  when  he  goes  to  sea  again,  there  is  no  end  of  tears,  and 
God-bless  yous,  and  home-made  gingerbread. 

His  Officer  on  shore  does  much  of  all  this,  only,  generally  speaking, 
in  a  higher  taste.  The  moment  he  lands  he  buys  quantities  of  jewel- 
lery and  other  valuables,  for  all  the  females  of  his  acquaintance  ;  and 
is  taken  in  for  every  article.  He  sends  in  a  cart  load  of  fresh  meat  to 
the  ship,  though  he  is  going  to  town  next  day ;  and  calling  in  at  a 
cliandk^'s  fpr  some  candles,  is  persuaded  to  buy  a  dozgn  of  green  wax^ 
yvith-rt'hich  he  lights  up  the  ship  at  evening;  regretting  that  the  fine 
moonlight  hinders  the  effect  of  the  colour.  A  man,  with  a  bundle 
beneath  his  arm,  acqosts  him  in  an  under-tone ;  and,  with  a  look  in 
■which  respect  for  his  knowledge  is  mixed  with  an  avowed  zeal  for  his 
own  interest,  asks  if  his  Honour  will  just  step  under  the  gangway 
hQrr.,  and  inspect  some  real  India  shawls.     The  gallant  Lieutenant 


*  tllE  INDICATOR.  J8l 

«pys  fb  himself,  '*  This  fellow  knows  what's  what,  by  h»s  face;"  and 
feo  he  proves  it  by  being  taken  in  on  the  spot.     When  he  brings  the 
shawls  home,  he  says  to  his   sister  with  an  air  of  triumph,  ^'  There, 
Poll,  there's  something  for  you  ;  only  cost  me  twelve,  and  is  worth 
twenty,  if  it's  worth  a  dollar."     She  turns  pale — "  Twenty  what,  my 
dear  George  ?   Why,  you  haven't  given  twelve  dollars  for  it,  I  hope?" 
"  Not  f,   by  the  Lord.'' — "  That's  lucky;  because  you  see,  ray  dear 
George,  that  all  together  is  not  worth  more  than  fourteen   or  fifteea 
shillings."     "  Fourteen  or  fifteen  what !   Why,  it's  real  India,  en't  it? 
Why  the  fellow  told  me  so  ;  or  I'm  sure  I'd  as  soon" — (here  he  tries 
to  hide  his  blushes  with  a  bluster)  *'  I'd  as  soon  have  given  him  twelve 
douses  on  the  chaps  as  twelve  guineas."     '■*  Twelve  guineas,"  ex- 
claims the  sister  ;    and   th«n    drawling  forth  "  Why — my^ — deak— ^ 
George,'^  is  proceeding  to  shew  him  Avhat  the  articles  would  have  cost 
at  Condell's,  when  he   interrupts  her  by  requesting  her  to  go  and 
chuse  for  herself  a  tea-table   service.     He  then  makes  his  escape  to 
some  messmates  at  a  coffee-house,  and  drowns  his  recollection  of  the 
shawls  in  the  best  wine,  and  a  discussion  on  the  comparative  merits  of 
the  English  and  West  Indian  beauties   and  tables.      At  the  theatre 
afterwards,   where  he  has  never  been  before,  he  takes  a  lady  at  the 
back  of  one  of  the  boxes  for  a  woman  of  qnaflty ;  and  when,  after 
returning  his.  long  respectfnl  gaze  with  a  smile,   she  turns  aside  and 
puts  her  handkerchief  to  her  mouth,  he  thinks  it  is  in  derision,  till  his 
friend  undeceives  him.     He  is  introduced  to  the  lady  ;  and  ever  after- 
wards, at  first  sight  of  a  woman  of  quality  (without  any  disparage- 
ment either  to  those  charming  personages),  expects  her  to  give  him  a 
smile.     He  thinks  the  other  ladies  much  better  creatures  than  they  are 
tsiken  for  ;  and  for  their  parts,  they  tell  him,  that  if  all  men  were  Hke 
himselfj  they  would  trust  the  se-x  again  ; — which,  for  aught  we  know, 
is  the  truth.     He  has,  indeed,  what  he  thinks  a  very  liberal  opinion  of 
ladies  in  general;  judging  them  all,  in  a  manner,   with  the  eye  of  a 
.seaman's  experience.     Yet  he  will  believe  nevertheless  in  the  "  trwe- 
love"  of  any  given  damsel  whom  he  seeks  in  the  way  of  marriage,  let 
him  roam  as  much,  or  remain  as  long  at  a  distance,  as  he  pleases.     It 
is  not  that  he  wants  feeling ;  but  that  he  has  read  of  it,  time  out  of 
niind,  in  songs;  and  he  looks  upon   constancy  as  a  sort  of  exploit, 
answering  to   those  which  he  performs  at  sea.     He  is  nice  in  his 
watches  and  linen.     He  makes  you  presents  of  cornelians,  antique 
seals,  cocoa-nuts  get  in  silver,  and  other  valuables.     When  he  shakes 
hands  with  you,  it  is  like  being  caught  in  a  windlass.     He  would  not 
jswagger  about  the  streets  in   his  uniform,  for  the  world.     He  is  gene- 
rally modest  in   company,  though   liable  to  be  irritated  by  what  he 
thinks    ungeutlemanly  behaviour.     He  is  also  liable  to  be  rendered 
irritable   by  sickness;  partly  because  he  has  been  used  to  command 
others,  and  to  be  served  with  all  possible  deference  and  alacrity  ;  and 
partly,  because  the  idea  of  suffering  pain,  vrithout  any  honour  or  profit 
jto  get  by  it,  is  unprofessional,  and  he  is  not  accustomed  to  it.     He 
.treats  talenls  unlike  his^-own  with  great  respect.      He  often   perceives 
ihis  own  so  little  felt  tliat  it  teaches  him  this  feeling  for  thai  of  others.  ' 
Besid;cs,  l;e  admires  the  quantity  of  information  which  people  can  get. 


3«2  THE  INDICATOR, 

without  travellfng  like  himself;  especially  when  he  sees  how  interfstr 
inghis  own  becomes,  to  them  as  well  as  to  every  body  else.  When  he 
tells  a  story,  particularly  if  full  of  wonders,  he  takes  care  to  maintaiqi 
his  character  for  truth  and  simplicity,  by  qualifying  it  with  all  possible 
reservations,  concessions,  and  anticipations  of  objection  ;  such  as  "  in 
case,  at  such  times  as,  so  to  speak,  as  it  were,  at  least,  at  any  rate.'* 
lie  seldom  uses  sea-terms  butwhen  jocosely  provoked  by  something  con-, 
trary  to  his  habits  of  life ;  as  for  instance,  if  he  is  always  meeting  you  on 
horseback,  he  asks  if  you  never  mean  to  walk  the  deck  again;  or  if  he 
finds  you  studying  day  after  day,  he  says  you  are  always  overhauling 
jour  log-book.  lie  makes  more  new  acquaintances,  and  forgets  his  old 
ones  less,  than  any  other  man  in  the  busy  world;  for  he  is  so  com- 
pelled to  make  his  home  every  where,  remembers  his  native  one  as 
such  a  place  of  enjoyment,  has  all  his  friendly  recollections  so  fixed 
upon  his  mind  at  sea,  and  has  so  much  to  tell  and  to  hear  when  he  re.? 
.turns,  that  change  and  separation  lose  with  him  the  most  heartless  part 
of-their  nature.  He  also  sees  such  a  variety  of  customs  and  manner?, 
that  he  becomes  charitable  in  his  opinions  altogether  ;  and  charity, 
while  it  diffuses  the  affections,  cannot  let  the  old  ones  go.  Half  the 
secret  of  human  intercourse  is  to  make  allowance  for  each  other. 

When  the  Officer  is  superannuated  or  retires,  he  becomes,  if  intel- 
ligent and  enquiring,  one  of  the  most  agreeable  old  men  in  the  world, 
equally  welcome  to  the  silent  for  his  card-playing,  and  to  the  conversa- 
tional for  his  recollections.  He  is  fond  of  astronomy  and  books  of 
voyages,  and  is  immortal  with  all  who  know  him  for  having  been  round 
the  world,  or  seen  the  Transit  of  Venus,  or  had  one  of  his  fingers  car^ 
rled  off  by  a  New  Zealand  hatchet,  or  a  present  of  feathers  from  an 
Otaheitean  beauty.  If  not  elevated  by  his  acquirements  above  some 
of  his  humbler  tastes,  he  delights  in  a  corner-cupboard  holding  his 
cocoa-nuts  and  punchbowl ;  has  his  summer-house  castellated  and 
planted  with  wooden  cannon  •  and  sets  up  the  figure  of  his  old  ship, 
the  Britannia  or  the  Lovely  Nancy,  for  a  statue  in  the  garden  ;  Avhere 
3t  stares  eternally  with  red  cheeks  and  round  black  eyes,  as  if  iu  as- 
tonishment at  it's  situation. 

Chaucer,  who  wrote  his  Canterbury  Tales  about  four  hundred  and 
thirty  years  ago,  has  among  his  other  characters  in  that  work  a  Ship- 
man,  who  is  exactly  of  the  same  cast  as  the  modern  sailor, — the  same 
robustness,  courage,  and  rough  drawn  virtue,  doing  it's  duty,  without. 
being  very  nice  in  helping  itself  to  it's  recreations.  There  is  the  very 
dirk,  the  complexion,  the  jollity,  the  experience,  and  the  bad  horse- 
manship. The  plain  unaffected  ending  of  the  description  has  the  air 
of  a  sailor's  own  speech  ;  while  the  line  about  the  beard  is  exceed- 
iiigly  picturesque,  poetical,  and  comprehetisive.  In  copying  it  out, 
we  shall  merely  alter  the  old  spelling,  where  the  words  are  still 
modern. 

A  Sbipman  was  tliere,  wonncd  far  by  west; 
For  aught  I  woi,  lie  was  of  Dartemoutli. 
He  rode  upon  a  roniicie,  as  lie  couth,* 
All  ill  a  gown  of  frtldinp:  lo  the  knee. 
A  dagjrer  {langing  by  a  lace  had  Ik*, 

*  ile  rode  upon  a  liack-horse,  lis  well  as  he  could. 


tSE  INDICATOBS.  n$ 

Abortt  Ws  neck,  under  his  arm  adown.  . 

The  hot  summer  liad  made  his  hew  all  brown. 

And  certainly  lie  was  a  good  felavv. 

Full  many  a  draught  of  wine  he  haddedraw 

From  Uourdeaux  ward,  while  that  the  chapman  slep.^ 

or  nice  conscience  took  Iie.no  keep. 

If  that  he  fought  and  had  the  higher  liand. 

By  water  he  sent  'em  home  to  eyery  land.  ^ 

But  of  his  craft,  to  reckon  well  his  tides,  ' 

His  streames  and  liis  strandesliim  besides,- 

Ilis  harborough,  his  moon,  and  his  lode  manage,- 

There  was  not  such  from  Hull  unto  Carthage. 

llardy  he  was,  and  <vise,  I  undertake;- 

Wi^^li  many  a  tempest  had  bis  bieard  been  shake. 

He  knew  well  all  the  havens,  as  they  were, 

From  Gothland  to  the  Capede  Finisteri'e,' 

And  every  creek  in  Britain  and  in  Spain. 

His  barge  ycleped  was  the  Magdelain.       ,     ' 

When  about  to  tell  his  Tale,  he  tells  his  fellow-travellers  that  he  shsll 
chink  therli  so  merry  a  bell, 

That  itsliall  waken  all  this  company: 
Bat  it  shall  not  be  of  philosophy. 
Nor  of  physick,  nor  of  terms  quaint  of  law  : 
There  is  but  little  Latin  in  nrty  maw. 

The  story  he  tells  is  a  trell-known  one  in  the  Italian  novels,  of  a  monk 
■who  Wjsde  love  to  a  merchant's  wife,  and  borrowed  a  kundred  franks 
of  the  husband  to  give  her.  She  accbrdingly  admits  his  addresses 
during  the  absence  of  her  good  man  on  a  journey.  When  the  latter 
returns,  he  applies  to  the  cunning  monk  for  repayment,:  and  is 
deferred  to  the  lady;  who  thus  finds  her  mercenary  behaviour  out- 
witted. 

TKANSLAXrON  OF  TASSo's  CELEBRATED 

ODE    TO    THE    GOLDEN    A  G  E^ 
Beginning,  "  O  bella  eta  delV  ore." 

[We  should  not  have  ended  our  present  number  with  this  transla" 
tion,  had  not  the  previous  matter  turned  out  shorter  in  the  printing' 
than  we  expected.  The  transition  from  a  modern  seaman  to  the  Gol- 
den Age  seems  no  very  harmonious  piece  of  contrast  ;  yet  we  might 
quote  preeedent  even  for  this  abruptness,  in  the  arrival  of  Vasco  de 
Gama's  Sailiyrs  at  the  Island  of  Love  in  Camoens.  One  of  the  stanzas 
has  already  appeared  in  this  work.  A  translation  of  the  whole  of  the' 
Aminta  by  the  Editor  is  now  going  thi-ough  the  press.} 

O  lovely  age  of  gold  !  , 

Not  that  the  rivers  rolled 

"With  milk,  or  that  the  wood* dropped  hpsey  dew;'         > 

Not  that  the  ready  ground 

Produced  without  a  wound. 

Or  the  mild  serpent  had  no  tooth  that  slew? 

Not  that  a  cloudless  blue 

For  ever  was  in  sight. 

Or  that  the  heaven  which  burns, 

And  now  is  cold  by  tuvas, 

Looked  out  in  glad  and  everlasting  light; 

No,  nor  that  ev'n  the  insolent  ships  from  far 

Brought  war  to  no  new  lands,  nor  riches  worse  thafl  war?^ 


isi  ^  THE  JNDICATOn. 

Hilt  solely  fliat  thut  vain 
'  Arul  breiitli-iiivenlecl  paiti, 

't^bat  idol  of  mistake,  ihnt  worshipped  cheat, 
Tliut  Honour, — since  so  called 
By  vtilfjar  miiuls  appalled. 
Played  not  the  tyrant  with  our  nature  yel. 
It  hard  hot  come  to  fret 
The  sweet  and  liappy  fold 
Of  gentle  human-kind  ; 
/  Nor  did  its  hard  law  bind 

Souls  nursed  in  freedom  ;  but  that  law  ofgold, 

Thatgl'rtd  and  <);oldeii  law,  all  free,  all  fitted. 

Which  Nature's  own  hand  wrete,— What. pleases,  is  permitted. 

then  among  streams  and  flowers 

The  little  winded  Powers 

Went  singing  carols  without  torcli  or  bow  : 

The  nymphs  and  shepherds  sat 

IVlingling  with  .innocent  chat 

Sports  and  low  wliispers;  and  with  whispers  low 

Kisses  that  would  not  go. 

The  maiden,  budding  o'er. 

Kept  not  iter  bloom  uneyed,  ' 

Which  now  a  veil  must  bide. 

Nor  the  crisp  apples  which  her  bosom  bore  : 

And  oftentimes,  iu  river  or  in  lake,    , 

Tl»e  lover  and  his  love  their  merry  bath  would  take. 

'Twaa  thou,  thou.  Honour,  first 
/  That  didst  deny  our  thirst 

Its  drink,  and  oh  the  fount  thy  covering  set: 

Thou  bad'st  kind  eyes  withdraw 

Into  cotitrained  awe, 

And  keep  the  secret  for  their  tears  to  wet : 

Thou  gatheredst  in  a  net 

The  tresses  from  the  air, 
;  And  mad'st  the  sports  and  plays 

'  Turn  all  tosullea  ways, 

And  put'st  on  speech  a  rein,  in  steps  a  care. 

Thy  work  it  is, — thou  shade  that  wilt  not  move. 

That  what  was  once  the  gift,  is  now  the  theft  of  Love. 

Our  sorrows  and  onr  pains, 
These  are  thy  noble  gains  i 
But  oh,  thou  Love's  and  Nature's  maslerer. 
Thou  cenq'ror  of  the  crowned. 
What  dost  thou  on  this  ground. 
Too  small  a  circle  for  thy  mighty  sphere  ? 
Go  and  make  slumber  dear 
To  the  renowni^d  and  high  I 
We  here,  a  lowl^  race. 
Can  live  without  thy  grace, 
After  the  use  of  mild  antiquity. 
Go ;  let  us  love :  since  years 
No  truce  allow,  and  life  soon  disappears. 
^  Go;  let  us  love:  the  daylight  dies,  is  born  ;- 

But  unto  U8  the  light 
Dies  oace  for  all ;  and  sleep  brings  on  eternal  night. 


Orders  received  by  the  Newsmen,  by  tlie  Booksellers,  and  by  the  Publisher,  Joseph  Appleyafd^ 
PriBted  by  Joseph  Appleyard,  No,  19,  Catherine-street,  Strand.^ — Price  ad. 


THE    INDICATOR. 


There  he  arriving  round  about  doth  flic. 
And  takes  survey  with  busie  curious  eye  : 
Now  this,  now  that,  he  tastetli  tenderly. 


Spenser. 


No.  XXIV.— WEDNESDAY,  MARCH  22d,  1820. 


ON  THE  REALITIES  OF  IMAGINATION.  ; 

There  is  not  a  more  unthinking  way  of  talking,  than  to  say  such 
and  such  pains  and  pleasures  are  only  imaginary,  and  therefore  te  be 
got  rid  of  or  undervalued  accordingly.  There  is  nothing  imaginary, 
in  the  common  acceptation  of  the  word.  The  logic  of  Mos^s  in  the 
Vicar  of  Wakefield  is  good  argument  here: — "  Whatever  is,  is.'* 
Whatever  touches  us,  whatever  moves  us,  does  touch  and  does  move 
us.  We  recognize  the  reality  of  it,  as  we  do  that  of  a  hand  in  the 
dark.  We  might  as  well  say  that  a  sight  which  makes  us  laugh,  or  a 
blow  which  brings  tears  into  our  eyes,  is  imaginary,  as  that  any  thing 
else  is  imaginary  which  makes  us  laugh  or  weep.  We  can  only  judge 
of  things  by  their  eifects.  Our  perception  constantly  deceives  us,  in 
things  with  which  we  suppose  ourselves  perfectly  conversant;  but  our 
reception  of  their  effect  is  a  different  matter.  Whether  we  are  mate- 
rialists or  immaterialists,  whether  things  be  about  us  or  within  us, 
whether  we  think  the  sun  is  a  substance,  or  only  the  image  of  a  divine 
thought,  an  idea,  a  thing  imaginary,  we  are  equally  agreed  as  tq  the 
notion  of  it's  warmth.  But  on  the  other  hand,  as  this  warmth  is  felt 
differently  by  different  temperaments,  so  what  we  call  imaginary 
things  affect  different  minds.  What  we  have  to  do  is  not  to  deny  their 
effect,  because  we  do  not  feel  in  the  same  proportion,  or  whether  we 
even  feel  it  at  all ;  but  to  see  whether  our  neighbours  may  not  be 
moved.  If  they  are,  there  is,  to  all  intents  and  purposes,  a  moving 
cause.  But  we  do  not  see  it  ?  No  ; — neither  perhaps  do  they.  They 
only  feel  it ;  they  are  only  sentient,— a  word  which  implies  the  sighf: 
given  to  the  imagination  by  the  feelings.  But  what  do  you  mean,  we 
may  ask  in  return,  by  seeing  ?  Some  rays  of  light  come  in  con- 
tact with  the  eye ;  they  bring  a  sensation  to  it;  in  a  word,  they  touch 
it ;  and  the  impression  left  by  this  touch  we  call  sight.  How  far  does 
this  differ  in  effect  from  the  impression  left  by  any  other  touch^^  how- 
ever mysterious?     An  ox  knocked  down  by  a  butcher,  and' a  man 


186  THE  INDICATOR. 

knocked  down  by  a  fit  of  the  apoplexy,  equally  feel  themselves  com- 
pelled to  drop.  The  tickling  of  a  straw  and  of  a  comedy  equally 
move  the  muscles  about  our  mouth.  The  look  of  a  beloved  eye  will 
so  thrill  the  whole  frame,  that  old  philosophers  have  had  recourse  to 
a  doctrine  of  beams  and  radiant  particles  flying  from  one  sight  to 
another.  In  fine,  what  is  contact  itself,  and  why  does  Jt  affect  us  ? 
There  is  no  one  cause  more  mysterious  than  another,  if  we  look 
inio  it. 

Nor  does  the  question  concern  us  like  moral  causes;  We  may  be  con- 
tent to  know  the  earth  by  if^s  fruits  ;  but  how  to  increase  and  improve 
them  is  a  more  attractive  study.  If  instead  of  saying  that  the  causes 
which  moved  in  us  this  or  that  pain  or  pleasure  were  imaginary, 
people  were  to  say  that  the  causes  themselves  were- removeable,  they 
would  be  nearer  the  truth.  When  a  stone  trips  us  up,  we  do  not  fall 
to  disputing  it's  existence  :  we  put  it  out  of  the  way.  In  like  manner, 
when  we  suffer  from  what  is  called  an  imaginary  pain,  our  business  is 
not  to  canvass  the  reality  of  it.  Whether  there  is  any  cause  or  not  in 
that  or  any  other  perception,  or  whether  every  thing  consist  not  in  what 
is  called  effect,  it  is  sufficient  for  us  that  the  effect  is  real.  Our  sole 
business  is  to  remove  those  second  causes,  which  always  accompany 
the  original  idea.  As  in  deliriums  for  instance,  it  would  be  idle  to  go 
about  persuading  the  patient  that  he  did  not  behold  the  figures  he  says 
he  does.  He  might  reasonably  ask  us,  if  he  could,  how  we  know  any 
thing  about  the  matter ;  or  how  we  can  be  sure,  that  in  the  infinite 
wonders  of  the  universe,  certain  realities  may  not  become  apparent  to 
certain  eyes,  whether  diseased  or  not.  Our  business  w.ould  be  to 
put  him  into  that  state  of  health,  in  which  human  beings  are  not 
diverted  from  their  offices  and  comforts  by  a  liability  to  such  imagina- 
tions. The  best  reply  to  his  question  would  be,  that  such  alnorbidity 
is  clearly  no  more  a  fit  state  for  a  human  being,  than  a  disarranged  or 
incomplete  state  of  vvorks  is  for  a  watch ;  and  that  seeing  the  general 
tendency  of  nature  to  this  completeness  or  state  of  comfort,  we  natu- 
rally conclude,  that  the  imaginations  in  question,  whether  substantial 
or  not,  are  at  least  not  of  the  same  lasting  or  prevailing  description. 

We  do  not  profess  metaphysics.  We  are  indeed  so  little  conversant 
with  the  masters  of  that  profound  art,  that  we  are  never  sure  whetlier 
we  are  using  even  it's  proper  terms.  All  that  we  may  know  on  the 
subject  comes  to  us  from  some  reflection  and  some  experience  ;  and 
this  all  m^y  be  so  little  as  to  make  a  metaphysician  smile  ;  which  if  he 
be  a  true  one,  he  will  do  good-naturedly.  The  pretender  will  take 
occasion  from,  our  very  confession,  to  say  that  we  know  nothing.  Our 
faculty,  such  as  it  is,  is  rather  instinctive  than  reasoning  ;  rather  phy- 
sical than  metaphysical ;  rather  wise  because  it  loves  much,  than  be- 
cause it  knows  much;  rather  calculated  by  a  certain  retention  of 
boyhood,  and  by  it's  wanderings  in  the  green  places  of  thought,  to 
light  upon  a  piece  of  the  old  golden  world,  than  to  tire  ourselves,  and 
conclude  it  unattainable,  by  too  wide  and  scientific  a  search.  We 
pretend  to  see  farther  than  none  but  the  worldly  and  the  malignant. 
And  yet  those  who  see  farther,  may  not  all  see  so  well.  We  do  not 
blind  our  eyes  with  looking  upon  the  sun  in  the  heavens.     We  believe 


THE  INDICATOR.  l«7 

it  to  be  there,  but  we  find  it's  light  upon  earth  also  ;  and  we  would 
lead  humanity,  if  we  could,  out  of  misery  and  coldness  into  the  shine 
of  it.     Pain  might  still  be  there  ;  must  be  so,  as  long  as  we  are  mortal  ; 

For  oft  we  still  mu«t  weep,  since  we  are  human  : 

but  it  should  be  pain  for  the  sake  of  others,  which  is  noble ;  not  un- 
necessary pain  inflicted  by  or  upon  them,  which  it  is  absurd  not  to 
remove.  The  very  pains  of  mankind  struggle  towards  pleasures ;  and 
such  pains  as  are  proper  for  them  have  this  inevitable  accompaniment 
of  true  humanity, — that  they  cannot  but  realize  a  certain  gentleness  of 
enjoyment.  Thus  the  true  bearer  of  pain  would  come  round  to  us; 
and  he  would  not  grudge  us  a  share  of  his  burden,  though  in  taking 
from  his  trouble  it  might  diminish  his  pride.  Pride  is  but  a  bad  plea- 
sure at  the  expense  of  others.  The  great  object  of  humanity  is  to 
enrich  every  body.  If  it  is  a  task  destined  not  to  succeed,  it  is  a  good 
one  from  it's  very  nature ;  and  fulfils  at  least  a  glad  destiny  of  it's  own. 
To  look  upon  it  austerely  is  in  reality  the  reverse  of  austerity.  It  is 
only  such  an  impatience  of  the  want  of  pleasure  as  leads  us  to  grudge 
it  in  others ;  and  this  impatience  itself,  if  the  sufi'erer  knew  how  to 
use  it,  is  but  another  impulse,  in  the  general  yearning,  towards  an  equal 
wealth  of  enjoy  men  t« 

But  we  shall  be  getting  into  other  discussions.— The  ground-work 
of  all  happiness  is  health.  Take  care  of  this  ground  •  and  the  doleful 
imaginations  that  come  to  warn  us  against  it's  abuse,  will  avoid  it. 
Take  care  of  this  ground,  and  let  as  many  glad  imaginations  throng  to 
it  as  possible.  Read  the  magical  works  of  the  poets,  and  they  will 
come.  If  you  doubt  their  existence,  ask  yourself  whether  you  feel 
pleasure  at  the  idea  of  them;  whether  you  are  moved  into  delicious 
smiles,  or  tears  as  delicious.  If  you  are,  the  result  is  the  same  to  you, 
whether  they  exist  or  not.  It  is  not  mere  words  to  say,  that  he  who 
goes  through  a  rich  man's  park,  and  sees  things  in  it  which  never  bless 
the  mental  eyesight  of  the  possessor,  is  richer  than  he.  He  is  richer. 
More  results  of  pleasure  come  home  to  him.  The  ground  is  actually 
more  fertile  to  him :  the  place  haunted  with  finer  shapes.  He  has 
more  servants  to  come  at  his  call,  and  administer  to  him  with  full 
hands.  Knowledge,  sympathy,  imagination,  are  all  Divining  Rods, 
with  which  he  discovers  treasure.  Let  a  painter  go  through  the 
grounds,  and  he  will  see  not  only  the  general  colours  of  green  and 
brown,  but  all  thair  combination  and  contrasts,  and  all  the  modes  in 
which  diey  might  again  be  combined  and  contrasted.  He  will  also 
put  figures  in  the  landscape  if  there  are  none  there,  flocks  and  herds^ 
or  a  solitary  spectator,  or  Venus  lying  with  her  white  body  among  the 
violets  and  primroses.  Let  a  musician  go  through,  and  he  will  hear 
"  xliflferences  discreet"  in  the  notes  of  the  birds  and  the  lapsing  of  the 
water-falL  He  will  fancy  a  serenade  of  wind  instruments  in  the  open 
air  at  the  lady's  window,  with  a  voice  rising  through  it ;  or  the  hora 
of  the  hunter ;  or  the  musical  cry  of  the  hounds,    - 

.  Matched  in  mouth  like  bells, 
Each  under  each'j 


1^  THE  INDICATOR. 

or  a  solitary  voice  in  a  bower,  singing  for  an  expected  lover  ;  or  the 
chapel  organ,  Avaking  up  like  the  fountain  of  the  winds.  Let  a  poet 
go  through  the  grounds,  and  he  -will  heighten  and  increase  all  these 
sounds  and  images.  lie  will  bring  the  colours  from  heaven,  and  put 
an  unearthly  meaning  into  the  voice.  He  will  have  stories  of  the 
sylvan  inhabitants  ;  will  shift  the  population  through  infinite  varieties ; 
will  put  a  sentiment  upon  every  sight  and  sound  ;  will  be  human, 
romantic,  supernatural ;  will  make  all  nature  send  trib\ite  into  that 
spot. 

Straight  mine  eye  liatli  caught  new  pleasures 
"While  the  landskip  round  it  measures; 
Russet  lawns,  and  fallows  grey. 
Where  the  nibbling  flocks  do  stray  ; 
Mountains,  on  whose  barren  breast 

The  labouring  clouds  do  often  rest;  / 

Meadows  trim  with  daisies  pied, 
V  Sliallow  brooks,  and  rivers  wide  ; 

Towers  and  battlements  it  sees, 
Bosomed  high  in  tufted  trees. 
Where  perhaps  some  Beauty  lies, 
The  Cynosure  of  neighbouring  eyes. 

But  not  to  go  on  quoting  lines  which  are  ever  in  people's  mouths  like 
a  popular  tune,  take  a  passage  from  the  same  poet  less  familiar  to 
one's  every-day  recollections.  It  is  in  his  Arcadian  Mask,  which  was 
performed  by  some  of  the  Derby  family  at  their  seat  at  Harefield,  near' 
Uxbridge.  The  Genius  of  the  place,  meeting  the  noble  shepherds  and 
(Shepherdesses,  accosts  them  : — 

Stay,  gentle  swains,  for  though  in  this  disguise, 
I  see  bright  honour  sparkle  through  your  eyes; 
" '  Of  famous  Arcady  ye  are,  and  sprung  ' 

Of  that  renowed  flood,  so  often  sung, 
Divine  Alpheus,  who4)y  s^ret  sluice 
Stole  under  seas  to  meet  lys  Arethuse; 
And  ye,  the  breatliing  roses  of  the  wood. 

Fair  silver-buskined  Nymphs,  as  great  and  good  ;  ^ 

I  know  this  quest  of  yours,  and  free  intent, 
Was  all  in  honour  and  devotion  meant 
To  the  great  mistress  of  yon  princely  shrine. 
Whom  with  iovv  rfeverence  I  adore  as  mine  i       ^ 
And  with  alj  helpful  service  will  comply 
To  further  (his  night's  glad  solemnity; 
And  lead  ye  where  ye  may  more  near  behold 
What  shallow-searching  Fame  hatli  left  untold  ; 
Which  I,  full  oft,  amidst  these  shades  alone, 
Have  sat  to  wonder  al,  and  gaze  upon  :  . 

Fo*-  know,  by  lot  from  Jove  I  am  the  Power 
Of  this  fair  wood,  and  live  in  oaken  bower, 
To  nurse  the  saplings  tall,  and  curl  the  grove 
In  ringlets  quaint  and  wanton  windings  wove: 
And  all  my  plants  I  save  from  nightly  ill 
'  Of  noisome  winds,  and  blasting  vapours  chill ; 

And  from  the  boughs  brush  off  tlie  evil  dew, 
And  heal  the  harms  of  thwarting  thunder  blue, 
Or  what  the  cross  dire-looking-planet  smites, 
Or  hurtful  worm  with  cankered  venom  bites. 
When  evening  gray  doth  rise,  I  fetch  my  round 
Over  the  mount,  and  all  thie  hallowed  ground  ; 


THE  INDICATOR.  189 

And  early,  ere  the  odorous  breath  of  morn 
Awakes  the  slumbering  leaves,  or  tassel'd  horn 
Shakes  the  high  thicket,  haste  Tail  about^ 
Number  my  ranks,  and  visit  every  sprout 
With  puissant  words  and  murmurs  made  to  bless. 
But  else,  in  deep  of  night,  wlien  drowsiness 
Hath  locked  up  mortal  sense,  then  listen  I 
To  the  celestial  Syrens'  harmony. 
That  sit  upon  the  nine  infolded  spheres, 
And  sing  to  those  that  hold  the  vital  shears. 
And  turn  the  adamantine  spindle  round, 
On  whicii  the  fate  of  gods  and  men  is  wound. 
Such  sweet  compulsion  doth  in  music  lie 
To  lull  tlie  daughters  of  necessity, 
-    ,    And  keep  unsteady  Nature  to  her  law, 

And  the  low  world  in  measured  motion  draw. 
After  the  heavenly  tune,  which  none  can  hear 
Of  human  mould,  with  gross  unpurged  ear. 

"  Milton's  Genius  of  the  Grove,"  says  Warton,  ^^  being  a  spirit  sent 
from  Jove,  and  commissioned  from  heaven  to  exercise  a  preternatural 
guardianship  over  the  "  saplings  tall,"  to  avert  every  noxious  influence, 
and  "  to  visit  every  sprout  with  puissant  words,  and  murmurs  made  to 
bless,"  had  the  privilege,  not  indulged  to  gross  mortals,  of  hearing  the 
celestial  Syrens'  harmony.  This  enjoyment,"  continues  the  critic,  in 
the  spirit  of  a  true  reader,  luxuriating  over  a  beautiful  thought, — 
"  This  enjoyment,  which  is  highly  imagined,  Avas  a  relaxation  from  the 
duties  of  his  peculiar  charge,  in  the  depth  of  midnight,  when  the  world 
is  locked  up  in  sleep  and  silence*."  The  music  of  the  spheres  is  the 
old  Platonic  or  Pythagorean  doctrine;  but  it  remained  for  Milton  to 
render  it  a  particular  midnight  recreation  to  "  purged  ears,"  after  the 
earthly  toils  of  the  day.  And  we  partake  of  it  with  the  Genius.  VVe 
may  say  of  the  Love  of  Nature,  what  Shakspeare  says  of  another  Love, 
that  it 

Adds  a  precious  seeing  to  the  eye. 

And  we  may  say  also,  upon  the  like  principle,  that  it  adds  a  precious 
hearing  to  the  ear.  This  and  Imagination,  which  ever  follows  upon  it, 
are  the  two  purifiers  of  our  sense,  which  rescue  us  from  the  deafening 
babble  of  common  cares,  and  enable  us  to  hear  all  the  aftectionate 
voices  of  earth  and  heaven.  The  starry  orbs,  lapsing  about  in  their 
smooth  and  sparkling  dance,  sing  to  us.  The  brooks  talk  to  its  of 
solitude.  The  birds  are  the  animal  spirits  of  nature,  carolling  In  the 
air,  like  a  careless  lass. 

The  gentle  gales. 
Fanning  their  odoriferous  wiiig<,  dispense 
Native  perfumes;  and  whisper  whence  they  stole 
Those  balmy  spoils.-: Paradise  Lost,  B.  4. 

*  If  tlve  reader  wishes  to  indulge  himself  in  a  volume  full  of  sheer  poetry  with  a 
pleasant  companion,  familiar  with  the  finest  haunts  of  the  Muses,  he  cannot  do 
belter  than  get  Warton's  Edition  of  the  Minor  Poems  of  Milton.  The  principal 
notes  have  been  transferred  by  Mr.  Todd  to  the  sixth  volume  of  his  own  valuable 
Edition  of  Milton's  Poetical  Works;  but  it  is  better  to  have  a  good  thing  entire. 
The  two  together  might  be  still  better;  but  a  work  complete  now-a-days,  in  one 
volume,  ia — a  work  complete. 


190  THE  INDICATOR. 

The  poets  are  called  creators  (Tlor^rxi,  Makers),  because  ^vith  their 
magical  words,  they  bring  forth  to  our  eyesight  the  abundant  images 
and  beauties  of  creation.  The  put  them  there,  if  the  reader  pleases; 
and  so  are  literally  creators.  But  whether  put  there  or  discovered, 
whethe"  created  or  invented,  (for  invention  means  nothing  but  finding 
out),  there  they  are.  If  they  touch  us,  they  exist  to  as  much  purpose 
as  any  thing  else  which  touches  us.  If  a  passage  in  King  Lear  brings 
the  tears  into  our  eyes,  it  is  as  real  as  the  touch  of  a  sorrowful  hand. 
If  the  flow  of  a  song  of  Anacreon's  intoxicates  us,  it  is  as  true  to  a 
pulse  within  us  as  the  wine  he  drank.  We  hear  not  their  sounds  with 
ears,  nor  see  their  sights  with  eyes ;  but  we  hear  and  see  both  so  truly, 
tliat  wc  are  moved  with  pleasure ;  and  the  advantage,  nay,  even  the 
test,  of  seeing  and  hearing,  at  any  time,  is  not  in  the  seeing  and  hear- 
ing, but  in  the  ideas  we  realize,  and  the  pleasure  we  derive.  Intellec- 
tual objects  therefore,  inasmuch  as  they  come  home  to  us,  are  as  true 
a  part  of  the  population  of  nature,  as  visible  ones;  and  they  are  Infi- 
nitely more  abundant.  Between  the  tree  of  a  country  clown,  and  the 
tree  of  a  Milton  or  Spenser,  what  a  difference  in  point  of  productive- 
ness !  Between  the  plodding  of  a  sexton  through  a  church-yard,  and 
the  walk  of  a  Gray,  what  a  difference!  What  a  difference  between 
the  Bermudas  of  a  ship-builder,  and  the  Bermoothes  of  Shakspeare  ; 
the  isle 

Full  of  noises. 
Sounds,  and  sweet  airs  tliat  give  delight,  and  hurt  not ; 

the  isle  of  elves  and  fairies,  that  chased  the  tide  to  and  fro  on  the  sea- 
shore; of  coral-bones,  and  the  knells  of  sea-nymphs;  of  spirits  danc- 
ing on  the  sands,  and  singing  amidst  the  hushes  of  the  wind;  of  Cali- 
ban, whose  brute  nature  enchantment  had  made  poetical;  of  Ariel, 
who  lay  ia  cowslip  bells,  and  rode  upon  the  bat ;  of  Miranda, 
who  wept  when  she  saw  Ferdinand  work  so  hard,  and  begged  him  to 
let  her  help,;  telling  him, 

I  am  yo«r  wife,  if  you  will  marry  me  ; 
If  not,  I'll  die  your  maid.     To  be  your  fellow 
Yon  may  deny  me  ;  but  I'll  be  your  servant. 
Whether  you  will  or  no. 

Such  are  the  discoveries  which  the  poets  make  for  us; — worlds,  to 
which  that  of  Columbus  Avas  but  a  handful  of  brute  matter.  It  began 
to  be  richer  for  us  the  other  da} ,  when  Humboldt  came  back  and  told 
us  of  it's  luxuriant  and  gigantic  vegetation  ;  of  the  myriads  of  shooting 
lights,  which  revel  at  evening  in  the  southern  sky:  and  of  that  grand 
constellation,  at  which  Dante  seems  to  have  made  so  remarkable  a 
guess.  (Purgatorio,  Cant.  .1,  v.  22.)  The  natural  warmth  of  the  Mexi- 
can and  Peruvian  genius,  set  free  from  despotism,  will  soon  do  all  the 
rest  for  it ;  awaken  the  sleeping  riches  of  it's  eyesight,  and  call  forth 
the  glad  music  of  it's  affections. 

To  return  to  our  parks  or  landscapes,  and  what  the  poets  can  make 
of  them.  It  is  not  improbable  that  Milton,  by  his  Genius  of  the 
Grove  at  Ilarefield,  covertly  intended  himself.  He  had  been  applied 
lo  by  the  Derbys  to  write  some  holiday  poetry  for  them*  .  He  puts 
his  consent  in  the  mouth  of  the  Genius,  whose  band,  he  says,  curls  the 


THE  INDICATOR.  in 

rrnglefs  of  the  grove,  and  who'  refreshes  himself  at  midnight  vrith  lis- 
tening to  the  music  of  the  spheres  :  that  is  to  say,  whose  hand  confers 
new  beauty  on  it  by  it's  touch,  and  who  has  pleasures  in  solitude  far 
richer  and  loftier  than  those  of  n>ere  patrician  mortals. 

See  how  finely  Ben  Jonson  enlivens  hi^  description  of  Penshurst, 
the  family-seat  of  the  Sydneys ;  now  with  the  creations  of  classical 
mythology,  and  now  with  the  rural  manners  of  the  time. 

Thau  art  not,  Penshurst,  built  tn  envious  show, 
'  Or  touch,  of  marble;  nor  canst  boast  a  row  " 

Of  polislied  pillars,  or  a  roof  of  fjoid  ; 
Tliou  hast  no  lantern,  whereof  tales  are  told? 
Or  stair,  or  courts  ;  but  standst  an  ancient  pile  ; 
And  these,  grudtred  at,  are  rev'ert- need  the  while. 
Thou  joy'st  in  better  marks,  of  soil,  of  air, 
Of  wood,  of  water:   liierein  thou  art  fair. 
Thou  hast  thy  walks  for  health,  as  well  as  sport ; 
Thy  mount,  to  which  the  Dryads  do  resort; 
Wheie  Pan  and  Bacchus  their  high  feasts  have  made, 
Beneatli  the  broad  beech,  and  the chesnut  shade; 
That  taller  tree,  which  of  a  nut  was  set 
At  his  great  birth,  where  all  the  muses  met.  * 
There,  in  the  wrilhed  bark,  are  cut  the  names 
Of  many  a  Sylvan,  taken  with  his  flames: 
And  thence  the  ruddy  Satyrs  oft  provoke 
Tlie  lighter  Fawns  to  reach  thy  lady's  oak. 
Thy  copse  too,  named  of  Gamage,  thou  haai  there. 
That  never  fails  to  serve  lliee  seasoned  dear. 
When  thou  wouldst  feast,  or  exercise  thy  friends: 
The  lower  land,  that  to  the  river  bends, 
Thy  sheep,  thy  bullocks,  kine,  and  calves  do  feed  ; 
The  middle  grounds  thy  mares  and  horses  breed  : 
Each  bank  doth  yield  thee  conies  ;  and  the  tops 
Fertile  of  wood.  Ashore  and  Sydney  copse. 
To  Grown, — thy  open  table  doth  provide 

The  purple  pheasat>t  with  tlie  speckled  side. 
*         «         »         «         «         »         *-« 

Then  hath  thy  orchard  fruit,  thy  garden  flowers. 

Fresh  as  the  air,  and  new  as  are  the  hours. 

The  early  cherry,  with  the  later  plum. 

Fig,  grape,  and  quince,  each  in  his  time  doth  come  : 

The  blushing  apricot,  and  woolly  peach. 

Hang  on  thy  walls,  that  every  child  may  reach  j 

And  though  thy  walls  be  of  the  country  stone. 

They're  reared  with  no  man's  ruin,  no  man's  groan  j 

There's  none  that  dwell  about  thenv  wish  them  down; 

But  all  come  in,  the  farmer  and  the  clown, 

And  no  one  empty  handed,  to  salute 

Tiiy  lord  and  lady,  though  they  have  no  suit. 

Some  bring  a  capon,  some  a  rural  cake, 

So'me  nuts,  some  apples;  some  that  think  they  make 

The  better  cheeses,  bring  'em  ;  or  else  send 

Ey  their  ripe  daughters,  whom  they  would  commend 

This  way  to  husbands;  and  whose  baskets  bear 

An  emblem  of  themselves  in  plum  or  pear. . 

Imagination  enriches  every  thing.  A  great  library  contains  not  only 
booksj  but 

The  assembled  souls  of  all  that  men  held  wise. Davenant. 

*  Sir  Philip  Sydney,. 


192  THE  INDICATOR. 

The  moon  is  Homer's  and  Shakspeare's  moon,  as  well  as  the  one  we 
look  at.  The  sun  comes  out  of  his  chamber  in  the  east,  with  a  spark- 
ling eye,  "  rejoicing  like  a  bridegroom."  The  commonest  thing  be- 
comes like  Aaron's  rod,  that  budded.  Pope  called  up  the  spirits  of 
ihe  Cabala  to  wait  upon  a  lock  of  hair,  and  justly  gave  it  the  honours 
of  a  constellation  ;  foF  he  has.hung  it,  sparkling  for  ever,  in  the  eyes 
of  posterity.  .  A  common  meadow  is  a  sorry  thing  to  a  ditcher  or  a 
coxcomb;  but  by  the  help  of  it's  dues  from  imagination  and  the  love 
of  nature,  the  grass  brightens  for  us,  the  air  soothes  us,  we  feel  as  we 
did  in  the  daisied  hours  of  childhood.  It's  verdures,  it's  sheep,  it's, 
hedge  row  elms, — all  these,  and  all  else  which  sight,  avid  sound,  and 
association  can  give  it,  are  made  to  furnish  a  treasure  of  pleasant 
thoughts.  Even  brick  and  mortar  are  vivified,  as  of  old  at  the  harp  of 
Orpheus.  A  metropolis  becomes  no  longer  a  mere  collection  of  houses 
or  of  trades.  It  puts  on  all  the  grandeur  of  it's  history,  and  it's  li- 
terature ;  it's  towers,  and  rivers;  it's  art,  and  jewelry,  and  foreign 
wealth ;  it's  multitude  of  human  beings  all  intent  upon  excitement, 
wise  or  yet  to  learn  ;  the  huge  and  sullen  dignity  of  it's  canopy  of 
smoke  by  day  ;  the  wide  gleam  upwards  of  its  lighted  lustre  at  night- 
time ;  and  the  noise  of  it's  many  chariots,  heard,  at  the  same  hour, 
when  tlie  wind  sets  gently  towards  some  quiet  suburb. 


TO  CORRESPONDENTS. 

We  will  covisitler  the  suggestion  respecting  a  List  of  Books  ;  (liougli  our  Corre* 
spondent  will  see  in  our  present  Number,  one  reason  among  others,  wliich  must  at 
least  prevent  us  from  being  in  a  hurry  on  tlie  subject. 

Mottoes. — Are  the  Mottoes  in  question  heraldic  ones;  or  any  others  already 
existing  ? 

The  Verses  of  B.  and  of  W.  B.  W.  have  their  graces  and  other  merits ;  but  we 
are  obliged  to  be  so  chary  in  liiis  Department,  that  they  must  think  as  kindly  as 
they  can  of  our  omitting  them. 


Orders' received  by  the  New^meii,  by  the  Booksellers,  and  by  the  Publisher,  Joseph  Appleyard. 
Printed  by  Joseph  Appleyard,  No.  19,  Catherine-street,  Strand.— —Price  'Jd. 


I 


THE    INDICATOR. 


There  he  arriving  round  about  doth  Bie, 
Afid  takes  survey  with  busie  curious  eye : 
Now  this,  now  that,  he  tasteth  tenderly. 

SrisNSER.. 


No.  XXV.— WEDNESDAY,  MARCH  29th,  1820. 


.  ttOOLE'S  AND  FAIRFAX'S  TASSO. 

By  far  the  best-known  translation  of  the  Jerusalem  Delivered  of 
Tasso,  is  Mr.  Hoole's.  It  has  appeared,  and  still  appears,  in  editions 
©f  all  sizes  ;  and  is  gathered  as  a  matter  of  course  into  collections  of 
t^e  British  Poets*  The  sole  reason  of  this  is,  not  that  Mr*  Hoole 
translated  the  work,  but  that  his  original  was  Tflsso.  It  is  the  nam0 
of  Tasso,  solely,  that  has  Carried  him  ori  from  generation  to  generation, 
Ijke  a  corpse  attached  to  the  immortal  spirit  of  the  Italian,  and  making 
it  dull  with  the  burden.  "  ' 

The  re-publication,  in  various  quarters,  of  the  finer  translation  by 
Fairfax,  will  doubtless  help  to  detach  one  ide^  from  the  other;  but  as 
Mr.  Hoole's  version  has  also  been  often  reprinted  of  late,  and  as  Fair- 
fax himself  presents  some  difficulties  in  th«  way  of  popularity,  a  few 
observations  on  the  two  works  may  not  be  useless  in  fui'thering  the 
public  interests  of  poetry.  ' 

Iloole  is  a  singular  example  of  the  popularity  which  a  man  may  ob- 
tain by  taking  up  a  great  author  to  translate,  with  whom  he  has  nothing 
in  common,  and  merely  subserving  to  the  worst  taste  of  the  tiriies. 
Some  readers  put  faith  in  the  imposture  from  the  mere  name  of  the 
original,  some  from  a  deference  to  the  translator's  knowledge  of  Ita- 
lian, some  from  the  recommendation  of  any  living  author  who  has; 
talent  in  any  thing,  some  from  a  real  wish  to  be  acquainted  with  d. 
great  poet,  some  from  national  self-lovej  some  from  indolence  o£ 
various  kinds,  many  from  the  habit  of  acquiescing  in  atiy  thing  after, 
their  own  fashion,  and  many  more  because  the  rest  have  done  sp  before 
them.  Yet  many  of  these,  with  whatever  sincerity  they  have  praised 
the  original  author,  would  have  thought  no  higher  of  him  than  of  some 
middle  writers  of  their  own  country,  as  indeed  has  frequently  been  the 
case  ;  and  others,  who  have  undertaken  to  agree  with  the  lovers  of  his  na- 
tive language  in  their  enthusiasm  about  his  pathos  and  dignity,  or  his 
vivacity,  naivete,  &c.  would  have  owned,  if  tUey  had  the  courage^  what 


104  THE  INDICATOR. 

a  dull  fellot^r  tfeoy  could  not  holp  thinking  hint.  Tire  rest,  who  really 
loved  and  understood  poetry,  Italian  or  English,  could  only  sit  still 
and  \Vo'nder  at  all  this,  preferring,  at  the  ris^k  of  l)ieing  thought  foolish 
or  peda:ntic,  the  old  obsolete  translators^  of  Shakspeare's  time,  when. 
*'  our  language,''  saith  Mr.  Hoole,  "  was  in  if^s  rudiments.''  It  was 
lucky  hbweter  for  this  gentleman,  that  he  had  the  period  he  wrote  in 
almost  all  to  himself.  There  was  not  a  single  real  poet  surviving,  ex- 
cept Cowper.— Gray,  Armstrong,  Akenside,  Collins,  GlMirchill,-^-'every 
body  was  gone  wlio  was  likely  to  detect  him  publicly  ;  and  the  age, 
in  every  respect,  was  then  in  the  fullness  of  it's  poetical  emptiness. 
The  French  school  was  In  it's  last  weedy  exuberance.  The  apprent  jees 
and  their  mistresses,  in  their  pretty  transparent  Acrostic  masks,  walked 
forth  by  hundreds  to  meet  each  other  in  Poet's  Corner  in  the 
magazines ;  and  as  nobody  knew  any  thing  about  poetry,  except  that 
it  had  to  repeat  "  ingenious"  common-places,  to  rhyme  upon  heart, 
impartjlove,  prove,  &c.,  and  to  pause,  as  Pope  did,  upon  the  fourth 
and  fifth  syllables^  every  body  could  wrJte  poetry,  and  admit  it  in 
others:  Pope,  whose  real  merits  they  did  not  understand  after  all, 
was  the  greatest  poet  that  ever  lived  ;  next  to  him  were  Goldsntith, 
and  Collins,  and  Gray,  the  tvfo  latter  however  very  little  understo'od  • 
then,  or  perhaps  before  them,  was  I>r.  Johnson,  whom  our  master  at 
school  gave  us  as  a  poetical  model :  then  crime,  in  their  respective 
circles,  though  at  due  distance,  Mr.  Jenkins,  Mr.  Tomkins,  or  Mr. 
Hipkins,  who  wrote  lines  on  the  beautiful  Miss  Y.  of  Bristol,  or  tha 
charm^iug  Miss  Z^  of  Fish  Street  Ilill ;  and  nothing  Vfas  wfft^^ttng  to 
make  such  a  perstrn  as  Mr.  Hoole  a  great  and  popula'r  writer  \ffth 
these  gentlemen  and  ladies,  but  that  he  should  write  a  great  quJVntity 
of  verses  ;  which  he  accordingly  did. 

That  Dr.  Johnson  should  speak  a:  good  w'ord  for  Mr.  Hoole,  mue« 
less  write  a  dedication  for  him,  is  not  surprising;  though  what  a  poet 
must  he  be,  who  goes  to  another  to  write  a  dedication  for  him  I'  JoBu- 
SOD'  was  in  the  habit  of  writing  dedications  foy  those  whey  were  con- 
scions^  ©f  not  being  good  turners  of  a  prOse  pard;graph,  and  wh=o  wished 
to  approach  the  great  with  a  proper  one;  and  Mr.  Hoole,  it  seottis, 
was  among  thesfr  modest  persons,  though  he  did  not  scruple  to  ap- 
proach Tasso  and  Ariosto  with  his  poetry.  Th«  dedication,  which  is 
to  the  latfe  Queen,  and  which  expresses  a  wish  that  Tasso  had  Iked  in 
a  happier  time  and  experienced  from  the  descendants  of  the  House  of 
Este,  '*  a  more  liberal  and  potent  patronage,'*  is  elegant  and  to  the 
purpose.  The  good  word  is  a  mere  word,  and  very  eq.uivoeal  besides. 
Johnson,  who  is  now  pretty  generally  understood  not  to  have  been  so 
good  acl-itic  in  poetry  as  he  was  strong  in  general  understanding,  and 
justly  eminent  in  some  respects,  might  have  been  very  capable  of  ap- 
plauding a  translation  upon  Mr.  Hoole's  principles ;  but  it  is  more 
than  to  be  suspected,  tha:t  he  would  have  desired  a  higher  order 
of  workmanship  out  of  the  manufactory.  Hoole  was  a  pitch  too 
How  for  his  admiration,  though  it  appeared  hte  had  private  qualities 
sufficient  to  secure  his  good  wishes;  and  even  those,  there  is  good 
reason  to  conclude,  could  not  have  prevented  a  feeling  of  contempt  for 
a  translator  of  great  poets,  who  eould  come  to  him  for  a  dedication.- 


THE  INDICATOR.  195 

When  Boswell,  in  one  of  his  maudlin  6ts  of  adulation,  affected  to  coii: 
sider  something  with  Goldsmith's  name  to  it  as  supplied  by  the  Doctor, 
the  latter  eould  not  restrain  his  scorn ;  and  said,  that  Goldsmith 
would  no  more  come  to  him  for  a.  paragraph,  than  he  would  to  be  fed. 
with  a  pap-spoon.  And  it  is  curious  to  observe,  after  all,  how  and  in. 
what  place  Johnson  has  said  his  good  word  for  our  translator.  It  is 
at  the  end  of  the  Life  of  Waller,  and  amounts  to  this  coy  prophecy  ;-— 
that  P'airfax's  work,  "  after  Mr.  IJoole's  translation,  will  not-soou  be 
reprinted.'' 

Mr.  Hoole  indeed,  with  superfluous  ingenuity,  has  Gontrired  to  let 
us  know,  by  other  means  than  his  translation,  how  totally  unfit  he  was 
for  the  task.  Ife  came  to  it  with  an  ignorance  of  all  real  poetrj,  that 
of  hig  own  country  not  exceptedi  After  telling  us  that  "  Fairfax's 
version  is  in  stanzas  that  cannot  be  read  with  pleasure  by  the  genera- 
lity of  those  who  have  a  taste  for  English  poetry,"— -that  it  is  '^  irk- 
some in  such  a  degree  as  to  surmount  curiosity,  and  more  than  coun- 
terbalance all  the  beauty  of  expression  and  sentiment  to  be  found  ia 
that  work,"— -and  that,  a.s  a  proof  of  all  this,  "  it  appears  scarcely  to 
have  been  read  at  all," — he  adds,  "  I  do  not  flatter  myself  that  i  have 
excelled  Fairfax,  except  in  my  measure  and  versifjcatiou,  and  eyen  of 
these  the  principal  recommendation  is  that  they  are  modern,  and  better 
adapted  to  the  ear  of  all  readers  of  English  poetry, 'except  of  the  very 
few  who  have  acquired  3,  taste  for  the  phrases  and  cadences  of  those 
times,  when  our  verse,  if  not  our  language  was  in  it's  rudiments  :" 
that  is  to  say,  at  the  close  of  our  very  greatest  age  both  in  poetry  and 
prose.  So  little  did  Mr.  Hoole  know  what  he  was  about,  either  in 
poetry,  or  the  versification  of  it,  that  while  in  the  course  of  his  trans- 
lation he  was  elaborately  doing  or  undoing  something  now  and  then, 
in  order  to  mingle  a  little  of  Dryden  with  Pope,  he  forgot,  or  was  not 
aware,  that  Dryden  himself  professed  to  have  learnt  part  of  his  .versi- 
fication from  Fairfax, 

In  our  first  Indicatob  we  gave  a  specimen  of  the  way  in  which  a  com- 
mon-place writer  would  translate  Shakspeare,  and  melt  down  his  fine 
things  into  nothings.  The  reader  might  take  that  specimen  alone,  as 
giving  a  full,  true,  and  particular  account  of  the  merits  of  IVIr.  Hoole 
as  a  translator  -of  Tasso.  And  wo  will  beg  him  still  to  keep  it 
in  mind,  or  to  refer  to  it,  as  sAving  us  the  necessity  of  many  extracts; 
for  it  is  not  a  pleasant  task  to  dwell  upon  the  demerits  of  any  body. 
We  will  just  give  a  comparative  specimen  or  t\yo  of  the  old  and  mo- 
dern version  of  Tasso,  and  then  take  our  leave  of  Mr.  Hoole,  to  in- 
dulge ourselves  with  a  few  more  Avords  upon  Fairfax  and  translation. 

Edward  Fairfax  led  a  life  which  a  brother  poet  might  envy.  He 
was  of  a  distinguished  family,  the  same  as  that  of  Fairfax  the  Parlia- 
ment General ;  and  having  an  estate  of  his  own,  and  the  greater  estates 
of  leisure  and  genius,  he  passed  the  whole  of  his  days  at  a  seat  in  tha 
Forest  of  Knaresborough,  in  the  bosom  of  his  family,  and  in  the  culti- 
vation of  poetry.  He  appears  to  have  had  all,  and  more  than  a  poet 
•wants, — tranquillity,  a  fortune  beyond  competence,  books,  rural 
scenes,  and  an.  age  that  could  understand  him.  He  flourished  just  at 
the  clobe  of  that  golden  period,  that  height  ^ad  strong  summer-time  of 


196  THE  INDICATOR. 

our  poetry,  when  language,  wisdom,  and  imagination  were  alike  at 
their  noblest,  and  thoughts  were  poured  forth  as  profusely  as  words 
have  been  since.  He  was  inclined  to  the  music  of  verse ;  and  the 
age  was  full  of  music,  of  every  species ; — he  was  of  a  romantic  and 
most  probably  superstitious  turn  of  mind*  ;  and  populai-  superstitions 
were  still  more  in  favour  than  during  the  preceding  era  ; — he  had  per- 
haps something  of  the  indolence  of  a  man  of  fortune  ;  and  in  the  course 
of  his  Italian  luxuries,  he  met  with  a  poet,  whose  tendencies  were  like 
his  own^  and  who  was  great  enough  to  render  the  task  of  translation 
honourable  as  well  as  delightful. 

He  accordingly  produced  a  version  of  Tasso,  which  we  do  not  say 
IS  ec^ual  to  the  original,  or  at  all  exempt  from  errors  which  a  future 
translator  (always  provided  he  is  a  poet  too)  may  avoid ;  but  which 
we  nevertheless  do  not  hesitate  to  pronounce  the  completest  tran&j. 
lation,  and.  most  like  it's  original,  of  any  -we  have  ever  seen.-^— 
We  will  open  our  extracts  with  that  famous  blast  of  the  trumpet, 
which  has  been  so  echoed  in  all  countries,  and  which  Voltaire  quotes 
^o  shew  what  the  Italian  language  can  do  in  the  way  of  grandeur, 

Chiama  gli  abilator  da  I'ombre  eterne 
ll  rarico  suon  de  la  tartarea  trpmba, 
Treman  le  spaziose  atre  caveme, 
E  I'aev  deco  a  quel  ronior  rimbomba: 
Ne  si  stridendo  mai  da  le  superne 
Regioni  del  cielo  il  folgor  piomba: 
Ne  SI  scossa  gia  mai  trema  la  terra, 
Quando  i  vapori  in  sea  gravida  serra. 

Lib.  4.  s(.3. 

This  is  certakily  nothing  like  the  "  tinsel"  which  Boileau  ventured  to 
talk  about ;  but  Mr.  Hoole  would  have  made  it  so  if  he  could.  This 
is  his  translation.  He  bpgins  with  making  the  trumpet  convene  the 
devils.     It  is  Pluto  at  Home,^-Qr  sending  a  court  circular. 

The  trumpet  now  ^iili  hoarse  resounding  breath 

Convenes  the  spirits  in  the  shades  of  death  ; 

The  hollow  caverns  tremble  at  the  sound; 

The  air  re-echoes  to  the  noise  aroun(L ; 

Not  louder  terrors  shake  the  distant  pole. 

When  through  the  skies  tlie  rattling  thunders  roll;  i 

Not  greater  tremors  heave  the  labouring  earth, 

■yVljen  vapours,  pent  within,  contend  for  birth. 

\  ■  '  Hoole,  Book.  4,  v.  17. 

Fairfax,  though  he  translates  the  concluding  couplet  rather  from 
Virgil  than  Tasso,  lets  loose  a  spirit  worthy  of  both  poets.  Observe 
the  fine  taste  with  which  he  has  managed  to  preserve  the  double 
rhymes,  that  make  the  original  so  resounding. 

The  dfearie  trumpet  blew  a  dreadful  blast. 
And  rombled  through  the  lands  and  kingdomes  under. 
Through  wastness  wide  it  roar'd,  and  hollowes  vast, 
And  fill'd  tlie  deepe  with  horror,  feace,  and  wonder; 

^  He  wrote  a  treatise  on  Daemonology,  wliich  was  fpundet^  pn  H  occurrences  in 
liis  own  Simily,"  and  is  still  somevvhere  in  MS.  If  King  James  knew  this,  it  must 
have  been  an  additional  incitement  to  his  putronage  of  the  Jeruisalem,  the  second 
edition  of  vfhirh  was  printed  at  his  der-ire. 


THE  INDICATOR.  197 

Not  lialfe  so  dreadful  noise  tlie  tempests  cast, 

That  fall  from  skies  with  stormes  of  haile  and  thunder; 

Nor  half  so  lowd  the  whistling  winds  doe  sing, 

Broke  from  the  earthen  prisons  of  their  king. 

Fairfax,  B.  4.  st.  3. 

We  must  not,  however,  take  tip  our  room  with  the  original  Ita- 
lian. The  next  passage  we  shall  quote  is  a  celebrated  one  also,  of  a 
different  description, — that  of  the  angel  descending  on  Mount  Leba- 
non • — -but  it  is  all  the  same  to  Mr.  Hoole. 

Refulgent  rays  his  beauteous  locks  enfold; 
Wiiite  are  his  nimble  wings,  and  edg'd  with  gold  : 
With  these  through  winds  and  clouds  he  cuts  his  way, 
Flies  o'er  the  land,  and  skims  along  the  sea. 
Thus  stood  the  angelic  power  prepared  for  flight. 
Then  instant  darted  fron\  th'  empyreal  height ; 
Direct  to  Lebanon  his  course  he  bent. 
There  closed  his  plumes,  and  made  his  first  descent. 

Hoole,  B.  I.  v.  107. 

This  closing  couplet  is  a  sad  misrepresentation  of  the  original,  where 
the  angel  is  described,  on  his  first  touch  of  the  mountain,  as  balancing 
himself  on  his  wings.  When  Mr.  Hoole  takes  leaves  of  his  author,  it 
is  for  want  of  strength  to  accompany  him  ;  when  Fairfax  does  it,  it  is 
to  lead  you  into  some  beautiful  corner  of  his  own  fancy.  It  is  thus 
he  renders  the  passage  : 

Of  silver  wings  he  tooke  a  shining  paire, 
JF ringed  with  gold,  unwearied,  nimble,  swift; 
With  these  he  parts  the  windes,  the  clouds,  -die  aire, 
And  over  seas  and  earth  himselfe  doth  lift: 
Thus  clad  he  cut  the  spheares  and  circles  faire, 
And  the  pure  skies  with  sacred  feathers  clift. 
On  Libanon  at  first  his  foot  he  set, 
And  shooke  his  wings  vvitli  roarie  May-dewes  wet. ' 

Fairfax,  B.  1.  sf.  14. 

The  most  striking  part  of  the  beautiful  choral  stanza  describing  the 
chauuting  of  the  army  is  totally  omitted  in  Hoole's  version.  We  sup- 
pose he  thought  the  remainder  sufficient,  and  so  indeed  his  reader  will 
think. 

So  pass  the  tuneful  band  with  cadence  sweet. 
The  holfc^w  vales  the  lengthened  notes  repeat; 
The  winding  caverns  and  the  mountains  high 
"^  A  thousand  echoes  to  the  sounds  reply. 

Hoole,  B.  11.  v.  77. 

Hither  the  armies  went,  and  chanted  shrill. 

That  all  the defipe  and  hollow  dales  resound; 

From  hollow  mounts  and  caves  on  every  hill 

A  thousand  echoes  also  sung  around  ;  ^ 

It  seem'd  some  quire  (that  sung  with  art  and  skill) 

Dwelt  on  those  savage  dennes  and  shadie  ground  ; 

For  oft  resounded  from  the  banks  they  heare 

The  name  of  Christ  and  of  his  mother  deare. 

Fairfax,  B.  H.  st.  11. 

Another  specimen  of  Mr.  Hoole,  and  we  have  done  with  him.  It  is 
his  close  of  the  bird's  song  in  book  the  sixteenth. 

He  ceas'd  ;  th'  approving  choir  with  joy  renew 

Their  rapturous  music,  and  their  loves  pursue.  "^ 


|S8  THE  INDICATOR, 

Again  in  pair^  ihe  cooinji;  turtles  bill, 

T;lie  feBlher'd  iialiuns  lake  llieir  amorous  fill. 

The  oak,  the  chaster  laurel  seems  to  yield    ■ 

And  all  the  leafy  tenants  of  llie  field. 

The  earll)  and  streams  one  soul  appears  to  move, 

All  seem  impregfiate  with  the  see(is  of  love. 

Jlere  is  not  the  faintest  resemblance  of  the  intense  though  airy  volup- 
tuousness of  the  original,  The  conclijsion  in  particular  is  no  more 
like  it,  titan  a  nursery ■jinan's  ledger  is  like  the  scent  of  his  roses.  J^ut 
^low  hear  Fairfax. 

lie  ceast ;  and  as  approoving  all  lie  spoke, 

The  quire  of  birds  their  heavenly  tunes  renew; 

The  turtles  sighed,  and  sijrhs  with  kisses  broke  ; 

The  fowle,:*  to  shades  unseene,  by  paires,  witbdrew  ; 

It  seem'd  tlie  laurel  chaste  and  stubborne  oak, 

And  all  tlfe  {rentle  trees  on  earth  that  prew, 
It  seem'd  the  land,  the  sea,  and  heav'n  above. 
All  breath'd  out  fancy  sweet,  and  sigh'd  out  love,     - 

Fairfax,  B.  16.  st.  16, 

This  is  even  superior,  we  think,  to  the  prlginal.  It  is  the  quiuta  pars 
ijectaris,  and  makes  the  senses  swim  aside  on  their  ovvn  faintness.  It 
is  like  the  perfection  of  a  chrystal  summer's  day,  made  a  little  languid 
with  nooH,  and  seeming  to  have  a  sparkling  and  iiiry  consciousness 
about  it  that  vents  itself  in  odorous  whispers. 

The  reader  will  observe  in  the  foregoing  specimens  of  Iloole,  how  a 
bad  translator  takes  refuge  from  the  real  feelings  of  his  author  in 
vagueness  and  cant  phrases.  As  he  has  no  feeling  of  his  own,  he 
resorts,  when  any  thing  is  mentioned,  not  to  the  thing  itself,  but  to  the 
terms  ia  which  it  has  been  montionod  by  the  writers  with  whom  he  is 
iqost  familiar.  He  does  not  translate  his  author's  thoughts,  but  his 
words :  or  rather,  he  attempts  only  to  do  even  that ;  for  on  that  very 
account,  he  does  neither.     To  feel  either  properly,  is  to  feel  both. 

We  are  greatly  tempted  to  make  many  more  extracts  from  Fairfax  ; 
but  we  must  restrain  ourselves.  In  further  illustration  of  what  we 
have  said  about  the  lines  which  he  has  inserted  of  his  own,  or  altered 
to  his  own  ideas,  and  the  syrnpathy  which  he  still  keeps  up  with  his 
author's  feelings,  we  will  just  refer  to  his  calling  Armida,  when  she 
sets  oif,  (4.  v.  27.)  the  Syrians'  "  night-ambling  dame,"-— to  the  two 
lines  (2.  v.  26.)  in  which  he  calls  Sophionia  in  the  hands  of  the  male- 
factors a  "  dumb"  and  "  silver  dove  ;"-=^to  the  neighing  of  the  horses, 
and  clattering  of  arms,  (1.  v.  73.)  which,  he  says. 

Pursue  the  echo  over  dale  and  downe; 

to  the  description  of  Armida  (4.  v.  29.)  in  which,  with  a  little  over- 
mixture  of  conceit,  yet  beautiful,  he  tells  us, 

The  marble  goddesse,  set  at  Gnidos  naked. 

She  seem'd,  were  she  uncloath'd,  or  that  awaked; — 

and  to  the  issuing  forth  of  the  devils  (4.  v.  18.)  which  as  the  stanza  is 
almost  cntireJy  his  own  as  well  as  a  fine  one,  and  crowded  with  his 
favourite  love  of  daenioiiolo^y,  we  bhall  tjuote  entire  : — 


THE  INDICATOa,-  199 

Before?  Uis  words  tlie  tyrant  ended  had, 
Tlie  lesser  devils  arose  witli  gastlie  rore. 
And  thronged  foortli  about  tlie  world  to  gad; 
Each  land  they  filled,  river,  streanie,  and  shore  j 
The  goblins,  fairies,  feends,  and  furies  mad, 
'  Ranged  in  flowrie  dales  and  mountains  here  J 

And  under  every  tremblino;  leaf  they  sit, 
Between  tlie  solid  earth  and  walkin  flit. 

Tho  flutts  of  r^aicfax  sre  pArtly  Ills  Own,  and  pardy  (liosp  of  {tie 
period  then  commencing.  They  consist  in  too  great  a  license  of  inter™ 
sion  *  occasional  crampness  and  obscurity  ;  an  over  tendency  to  con- 
trast ;  and  in  a  singulilr  fondness  for  occupying  a  line  here  and  there 
either  with  epithets  almost  synonimous,  or  with  a  marked  detail  of 
nouns,  which  close  his  statnza  like  palisadoes  ;  as  for  instance^ 

The  soil  was  gentle,-  srn'ooth,-  soff,  delicate— 
With  pitie,  sadness,  grjefe,  compassion,  feare—- 

Ifet  >te  aire  not  sure,  ■<the(her  this  kind  6f  repetition  does  not  fall  iri 
sometimes  with  a  certain  gentle  and  coiTtinuous  beauty.  It  is  clear, 
at  any  rate,  thit  the  Italians,  from  a  feeling  of  that  sort,  gave  rise  to  it 
themselves,  though  Fairfax  has  carried  it  i6  an  excess.  Petrarch  and 
feis  followers  sometimes  heap  a  line  with  descriptive  ntfuns  or  adjec- 
tives ;.  atnd  that  delightful  ^tild  fellow  Pulci  seems  to  take  it  pleas^jre 
even  in  repeating  a  multitude  of  notes  of  Interrogation,  and  beginning 
it  whole  stanza  or  more  with  the  same  word.  Tlie  over-leridency  tci 
contrast  iriay  also  be  traced  to  the  Italians,  especiiiHy  as  Marino  Was 
now  beconYing  a:draired  in  England,  and  every  l/ody  had  not  strength 
to  resist  his  crowcting  syrens  like  IV'iilton.  The  other  fauUs  arc  per- 
haips  owing  to  Fiiirfax's  having  chosen  to  abide  by  the  stanza  of  the 
original  ;■  fof  not  being  so  great  a  master  of  his  native  language  as 
Spenser,  who  Av^^ith  Ids  additional  line  seemed  to  defy  diincnlty  in  thi-sr 
respect,  and  too  often  to  no  purpcse,  he  hampered  himself  with  tlie 
great  rccarrence  of  rhymes,  vphich  suits  It-rfliart  much'  better  tliait 
English.  lie  was  a:lso,  though  by  no'  means  the  litera,!  translator 
which  Hume  has  mafde  him,  naturally  anxious  in  geirefaf  to  get  the 
sense  of  his  original  into  the  same  compass,  wliich  hampered  him 
fairther  ;"  and  the  resuflt  of  Sll  this,  joined  no'  doubt  to  a  natural  Infe- 
riority in  his  ov^n  genius,  however  true  a  one,  is,  that  lie  is  not  equal 
to  his  original  in  the  easiGr  part  of  his  majesty,— ^in  livs  clearnessv 
v^Mch  is  [ike  that  of  an  Italian  atmosphere, — and  in  a  certain  virgin 
sweetness,  "  casta  melodies  soalve  ;'■— -in  short,  he  is  inferior,  generally 
speaking,  in  simplicity. 

But,-  On  the  other  hand,  he  hd?,  groat  beauties.  If  he  ro'Jsghentd  the 
music  of  Tasso  a  little,  he  stilt  kept  it  music,-  and  beautiful  music  :-— 
some  of  Ms  stanzafs  indeed  give  the  sweetness  of  the  original  with  the 
still  s6fter'  sweetness  of  an  echo  ;  a:nd  he  blew  iiifo  the  rest  r-onie  noble 
organ-like  notes,  which  perhaps  the  original  is  too  deficient  hu  Jve 
Can  be  also  quite  as  stately  and  solemi^  in  feeling  ;--he  is  as  fervid  ii> 
his  devotion,  as  earnest  and  full  of  ghastly  apprehension  in  Ids  sui?<^;'- 
natural  agency,  as  wrapt  up  in  leafiiiess  iu  his  sylvan  haunts,  as  lu.va- 
riant  arad  alive  fa  tangible  shapes  in  his  veluptuousnes?.     H?  feel*  ih^ 


200  THE  INDICATOR. 

elements  and  varletif  s  of  his  nature,  like  a  true  poet;  and  his  transla- 
tion has  consequently  this  special  mark  of  all  true  poetry,  translated 
or  original, — that  when  the  circumstances  in  the  story  or  description 
alter,  it  gives  us  a  proper  and  pervading  sense  of  the  alteration.  The 
surfaces  are  not  all  coloured  alike,  as  in  a  bad  and  monotonous  picture. 
We  have  no  silken  armour,  as  in  Pope's  eternal  enamel ;  nor  iron  silks, 
as  in  Chapman  (who  is  perhaps  the  only  other  various  translator  never- 
theless) ;  nor  an  everlasting  taste  of  chips  instead  of  succulence,  a8  in 
the  Ariosto  of  Harrington. 

We  repeat,  however,  that  the  reader  must  not  expect  a  perfect  ver- 
sion in  Fairfax,  much  less  at  the  outset.  Tasso  himself,  in  our  opi- 
nion, does  not  well  warm  you  into  his  work  till  after  several  books  ; 
but  set  out  resolulely  with  him  or  his  translator,  or  with  both,  get  past 
some  cold  looking  places,  and  scratch  through  a  few  of  Fairfax's  rough- 
nesses and  obscurities,  and  you  come  upon  a  noble  territory,  full  of 
the  romantic  and  the  sweet,  of  stately  and  of  lovely  shapes,  of  woods, 
waters,  and  sunny  pleasures, — with  drearier  seclusions  apart,  and  lields 
of  sonorous  battle.  We  do  not  wonder  that  Collins  was  fond  of  this 
author  and  his  translator,  since  Johnson  has  told  us,  in  that  piece  of 
prose  music  of  his,  that  "  he  loved  fairies,  genii,  and  monsters,"— that 
*'  he  delighted  to  rove  through  the  meanders  of  enchantment,  to  gaze 
on  the  magnificence  of  golden  palaces,  and  to  repose  by  the  water- 
falls of  Elysium.''  Collins  has  given  Fairfax  a  high  and  proud  eulogy  in 
his  ode  on  the  Popular  Superstitions  of  the  Highlands. — Speaking  of 
Xassoj  he  says,' 

How  have  I  sat,  wlien  piped  tlie  pensive  wind. 
To  hear  his  harp  by  Britisli  Fairfax-strung, 
Prevaiiincf  poet !   wliose  undoubting  mind 
/        Believed  the  magic  wonders  vvliich  he  sung  f — 

And  then  he  goes  on  in  a  strain  of  softness  and  luxury,  that  seem  irri- 
tated from  the  countryman  he  is  praising.  Yet  Collins,  be  it  observed, 
was  an  accomplished  scholar,  and  quite  conversant  with  the  merits  of 
the  original.  Indeed  that  was  one  great  cause  of  his  eulogy.  Waller, 
who  appears  to  have  known  Italian,  and  Dryden  ''\vho  undoubtedly 
did  so,  were  both  great  admirers  of  Fairfax.  Waller  professed  to  have 
^'  derived  the  harmony  of  his  numbers''  from  him  ;  and  so  did  Dryden, 
if  a  reported  speech  of  his  to  the  Duke  of  Buckingham  is  to  be  taken 
for  granted.  He  gives  him  high  praise  at  any  rate,  and  joins  him  with 
Spenser  as  "  great  masters  in  our  language."  But  his  greatest  title  to 
regard  on  the  score  of  authority  comes  from  Milton,  who  when  he  bor- 
rowed from  Tasso,  took  care  to  look  at  Fairfax  also,  and  to  add  now 
and  then  something  from  him  by  the  way. 


Tlie  Editor  will  be  happy  to  take  up  l)ot]i  of  llie  subjects  mentioned  by  J.  C.  He 
had  already  intended  to  write  upon  the  latter;  and  the  oiher  will  fall  in  excellently 
wiili  the  spirit  of  liis  little  work. 


Orders  received  by  the  Newsmen,  by  the  Booksellers,  and  by  the  P\\blisher,  Joseph  AppWyard. 
Printed  Iij^Josepli  Appleyard,  No,  ip,  Catherine-street,  Strand,— —Price  id. 


THE    INDICATOR. 


There  he  arriving  round  about  doth  flier, 
And  takes  survey  with  busie. curious  eye : 
Now  this,  now  that,  he  tasteth  tenderly. 

Sp£NSER> 


No.  XXVI.— WEDNESDAY,  APRIL  5th,  1820, 


DEATHS  Of  LITTLE  CHILDREN. 

A  Grecian  philosopher  being  asked  why  he  wept  for  the  death  oE 
^is  son,  since  the  sorrow  was  in  vain,  replied,  "  I  weep  on  that  very 
lEiecount."  And  his  answer  became  his  wrsdoni.  It  is  only  for  sophists 
to  pretend  that  we,  whose  eyes  Contain  the  fountains  of  tears^  need 
never  give  way  to  them.  It  would  be  unwise  not  to  do  so  on  some 
occasions.  Sorrow  unlocks  them  in  her  balmy  moods.  The  first 
bursts  may  be  bitter  and  overwhelming  ^  but  the  soil,  on  which  they 
pour,  would  be  the  worse  without  them.  They  refresh  the  fever  of  the 
soul, — the  dry  misery,  which  parches  the  countenance  into  furrows, 
and  renders  us  liable  to  our  most  terrible  "  flesh-quakes."     • 

There  are  sorrows,  it  is  true,  so  great,  that  to  give  them  some  of  the 
ordinary  vents  is  to  run  a  hazard  of  being  overthrown.  These  we 
must  rather  strengthen  ourselves  to  resist ;  or  bow  quietly  and  drily 
down,  in  order  to  let  them  pass  over  us,  as  the  traveller  does  the  wind 
ofthedesart.  But  where  we  feel  that  tears  would  reliere  us,  if  is 
false  philosophy  to  deny  ourselves  at  least  that  first  refreshment ;  and 
it  is  always  false  consolation  to  tell  people  that  because  they  cannot 
help  a  thing,  they  are  not  to  mihd  it.  The  true  way  is,  to  let  them, 
grapple  with  the  unavoidable  sorrow,  and  try  to  win  it  into  gentleness 
by  a  reasonable  yielding.  There  are  griefs  so  gentle  in  their  very 
nature,  that  it  would  be  worse  than  false  heroism  to  refuse  them  a  tear. 
Of  this  kind  are  the  deaths  of  infants.  Particular  circumstances  may 
render  it  more  or  less  advisable  to  indulge  in  grief  for  the  loss  of  a 
little  child;  but  in  general,  parents  should  be  no  more  advised  to  re- 
press their  first  tears  on  such  an  occasion,  than  to  repress  their  smiles 
towards  a  child  surviving,  or  to  indulge  in  any  other  sympathy*  It  is 
an  appeal  to  the  same  gentle  tenderness  •  and  such  appeals  are  never 
made  in  Taini    The  end  of  them  is  an  acquittal  from  th«  harsher  bonds 


202  THE  INDICATOR. 

of  afflictidn,-i-from  the  tying  do^tn  of  the  spirit  to  one  melancholy- 
idea. 

It  is  the  nature  of  tears  of  this  kind,  howerer  strongly  they  may 
gush  forth,  to  run  into  quiet  Maters  at  last.  We  cannot  easily,  for 
the  whole  course  of  our  lives,  think  with  pain  of  any  good  and  kind  per- 
son whom  we  have  lost.  It  is  the  divine  nature  of  their  qualities  to 
conquer  pain  and  death  itself;  to  turn  t^ie  memory  of  them  into  plea- 
sure ;  to  survive  with  a  placid  aspect  in  our  imaginations.  We  are 
writing,  at  thi^  moment,  just  opposite  a  spot  which  contains  the 
grave  of  one  inexpressibly  dear  to  us.  We  see  from  our  Avindow  the 
trets  about  it,  and  the  church-spire.  Thegieen  fields  lie  around. 
The  clouds  are  travelling  over  head,  alternately  taking  away  the  sun- 
shine and  restoring  it.  The  vernal  winds,  piping  of  the  flowery 
sunjiner-tJme,  are  neft^rlbeless  calling  to  mind  the  far  distant  and  dan- 
gerous ocean,  which  the  heart  that  ires  in  that  grave  had  many  reasons 
to  think  of.  And  yet  Ihe  sight  of  this  spot  does  not  give  us  pain.  So 
far  from  it,  it  is  the  existence  of  that  grave  which  doubles  every  charm 
of  the  spot ;  which  links  the  pleasures  of  our  chUdhood  and  manhood 
together ;  which  puts  a  hushing  tenderness  in  the  winds,  and  a  patient 
joy  upon  the  land-scape  ;  which  seems  to  unite  heaven  and  earth,  mor- 
tality  and  immortality,  the  grass  of  the  tomb  and  the  grass  of  the 
^reen  fielcj,  and  gives  a  inbre  maternal  aspetit  to  the  whole  kindness  of 
aiature.  It  docs  not  hinder  gaiety  itself.  Happiness  was  what  it's 
tenant,  through  all  her  troubles, would  have  diffused.  To  diffuse 
happiness,  and  to  enjoy  it,  is  not  onlv  carrying  on  her  w  ishes,  but 
realizing  her  hopes;  and  gaiety,  freed  from  it's  only  pollutions, 
malignity  and  want  of  sympathy^  is  but  a  child  playing  about  the 
Jknee.s  of  it's  mother. 

The  remembered  innocence  and  endearments  of  a  child  stand  us  In- 
stead of  virtues  that  have  died  older.  Children  have  not  exercised  the 
voluntary  ofifices  of  friendship  ;  they  have  not  chosen  to  be  kind  and 
.good  to  us;  nor  stood  hyuS,  from  conscious  will,  in  the  hour  of  adver- 
sity, But  they  have  shared  their  pleasures  and  pains  \vith  us  as  well 
as  they  could :  the  interchange  of  good  offices  between  us  has,  of 
necessity,  been  less  mingled  with  the  troubles  of  the  world  ;  the 
sorrow  arising  from  their  death  is  the  Only  one,  which  we  can  as- 
sociate with  theif  memories.  These  are  happy  thoughts  that  cannbt 
.die.  Oujr  lobs  may  always  render  them  pensive;  but  they  will  i^ot 
always  be  painful.  It  is  a  part  of  the  benignity  of  Nature,  that  pain 
<lpes  not  survive  like  pleasure,  at  any  time  ;  much  less  where  the  cause 
of  it  is  an  innocent  one.  The  smile  will  remain  reflected  by  memory  ; 
•as  th«  moon  reflects  the  light  upon  us,  when  the  sun  has  gone  into 
heaven. 

When  writers  like  ourselves  quarrel  with  earthly  pain,  (we  mean 
writers  of  the  same  Jntentions,  without  implying,  of  course,  any  thing 
;abqut  abilities  or  otherwise)  they  are  misnnderstood  if  they  are  sup- 
posed to  quarrel  a' ith  pains  of  every  sort.  This  would  be  idle  and 
eiTfrminate.  They  do  not  pretend  indeed,  that  humanity  might  not 
wish;,  if  it  could,  lobe  entirely  free  from  pain  ;  for  it  endeavours  at  all 


THE  INDICATOR,  203 

firacs  to  turn  pain  into  pleasure,  or  at  least  to  set  oft"  the  one  with  the 
other ;  to  make  the  former  a  zest,  and  tlie  latter  a  refreshment.  The, 
most  unaflfeeted  dignity  of  suffering  does  this;  and  if  Avise,  acknow- 
ledges it.  The  greatest  benevolence  towards  others,  the  most  unselfish 
relish  of  their  pleasures,  ey.en  at  it's  own  expense,  does  but  look  to 
encreasing  the  general  stock  of  happiness,  though  content,  if  it  could, 
to  hare  it's  identity  swallowed  up  in  that  splendid  contemplation. 
We  are  far  from  meaning  that  this  is  to  be  called  selfishness.  We  are 
far  indeed  from  thinking  so,  or  of  so  confounding  words.  But  neither 
is  it  to  be  called  pain,  when  most  unselfish  ;  if  disinterestedness  be  truly 
understood.  The  pain  that  is  in  it  softens  into  pleasure,  as  the  darker 
hue  of  the  rainbow  melts  into  the  brighter.  Y^et  even  if  a  harsher  line 
is  to  be  drawn  between  the  pain  and  pleasure  of  the  most  unselfish 
mind,  (and  ill  health,  forinstance,  may  draw  it),  we  should  not  quarrel 
M'ith  it,  if  it  contributed  to  the  general  mass  of  comfort,  and  were  of  a 
nature  which  general  kindliness  could  not  avoid.  Made  as  we  are, 
there  are  certain  pains,  without  which  it  would  be  difficult  to  con- 
ceive certain  great  and  overbalancing  pleasures.  We  may  con- 
ceive it  possible  for  beings  to  be  made  entirely  happy:  but  in  our 
composition,  something  of  pain  seems  to  be  a  necessary  ingredient,  in 
order  that  the  materials  may  turn  to  as  fine  account  as  possible ; 
though  our  clay.  In  the  course  of  ages  and  experience,  may  be  refined 
ftiore  and  more.  We  may  get  rid  of  the  worst  earth,  though  not  of 
earth  itself. 

Now  the  liability  to  the  loss  of  children, — or  rather  what  ren- 
ders us  sensible  of  it,  the  occasional  loss  itself,— seems  to  be  one  of 
these  necessary  bitters  thrown  into  the  cup  of  humanity.  We  do  not 
mean  that  every  body  must  lose  one  of  his  children,  in  order  to  enjoy 
the  rest;  or  that  every  individual  loss  afflicts  us  in  the  same  proportion. 
We  allude  to  the  deaths  of  infants  in  general.  These  might  be  as  few 
as  we  could  render  them.  But  if  none  at  all  ever  took  place,  we 
should  regard  every  little  child  as  a  man  or  woman  secured ;  and  it 
will  easily  be  conceived,  what  a  world  of  eqilearing  cares  and  hopes 
this  security  would  endanger.  The  very  idea  of  infancy  would  lose 
it's  continuity  with  us.  Girls  and  boys- would  be  future  men  and 
women,  not  present  children.  They  would  have  attained  their  full 
growth  in  our  imaginations,  and  might  as  well  have  been  men  and 
women  at  once.  On  the  other  hand,  those  who  have  lost  an  infant-, 
are  never,  as  it  were,  without  an  infant  child.  They  are  the  only 
persons,  who,  in  one  sense,  retain  it  always  ;  and  they  furnish  their 
neighbours  with  the  same  idea*.  The  other  children  grow  up  t6 
manhood  and  womanhood,  and  suffer  all  the  changes  of  mortality. 
This  one  alone  is  rendered  an  immortal  child.  'Death  has  arrested  it 
with  his  kindly  harshness,  and  blessed  it  into  an  eternal  image  of 
youth  and  innocence. 

*  "  I  sighed,"  says  old  Capfain  Bolton,  "  when  I  envied  yoii  the  two  bonnie 
cliildren,  but  1  siirh  not  now  to  call  eitlier  the  monk  or  the  buldier  iniiiii  owit." — 
Moiiadtry,  Vol.  II!.  p.  341. 


204  THE  INDICATOR. 

■  Of  such  as  these  are  the  pleasantest  shapes  that  visit  our  fancy  and 
our  hopes.  They  are  the  ever-smiling  emblems  of  joy ;  the  prettiest 
pages  that  wait  upon  imagination,  Lastly,  "  of  these  are  the  king- 
dom of  heaven."  Wherever  there  is  a  province  of  that  benevolent 
and  all-accessible  empire,  whether  on  earth  or  elsewhere,  such  are  the 
gentle  spirits  that  must  inhabit  it.  To  such  simplicity,  or  the  resem- 
blance ot  it,  must  they  come.  Such  must  be  the  ready  confidence  of 
their  hearts,  and  creativeftess  of  their  fancy.  And  so  ignorant  must 
they  be  of  the  ''  knowledge  of  good  and  evil,"  losing  their  discern- 
ment of  that  self-created  trouble,  by  enjoying  the  garden  before  them, 
and  not  being  ashamed  of  what  is  kindly  and  innocent. 


ANOMALIES   OF   SHAPE.       THE    STORY  OF  CYLLARUS   AND 
HYLONOME. 

It  is  not  one  of  the  least  instances  of  the  force  of  habit,  to  see  how 
poetry  and  mythology  can  reconcile  us  to  shapes,  or  rather  combina- 
tions of  shape,  unlike  any  thing  in  nature.  The  dog-headed  deities  of 
the  Egyptians  were  doubtless  not  so  monstrous  in  their  eyes,  as  in 
ours.  The  Centaurs  of  the  Greeks,. as  we  shall  see  presently,  could 
be  imagined  possessing  beauty  enough  for  a  sort  of  human  love-story  : 
and  our  imaginations  find  nothing  at  all  monstrous  in  the  idea  of  aa 
angel,  though  it  partakes  of  the  nature  of  the  bird.  The  angel,  it  is 
true,  is  the  least  departure  from  humanity.  It's  wings'  are  not  an 
alteration  of  the  human  shape,  but  an  addition  to  it.  Yet,  leaving  a 
more  awful  wonder  out  of  the  question,  we  should  be  startled  to  fiud 
pinions  growing  out  of  the  shoulder-blades  of  a  child  ;  and  we  should 
wait  with  anxiety  to  see  of  what  nature  the  pinions  Avere,  till  we  be- 
came reconciled  to  them.  If  they  turned  out  to  be  ribbed  and  webbed 
like  those  of  the  imaginary  dragon,  conceive  the  horror.  If,  on  the 
other  liand,  they  became  feathers,  and  tapered  ofi"  like  tho^e  of  a 
gigantic  bird,  comprising  also  grace  and  splendour  as  well  as  the  power 
of  flight,  we  can  easily  fancy  ourselves  reconciled  to  them.  And  yet 
again,  on  the  other  hand,  the  Fly ing  Women,  described  in  the  Adven- 
tures of  Peter  Wilkins,  do  not  shock  us,  though  their  wings  partake 
of  the  ribbed  and  webbed  nature,  and  not  at  all  of  the  feathered.  We 
admire  Peter's  gentle  and  beautiful  bride,  notwithstanding  the  pheno- 
menon of  the  Graundee,  it's  light  whalebone-like  intersections,  and 
it's  power  of  dropping  about  her  like  drapery.  It  even  becomes  a 
inatter  of  pleasant  curiosity.  We  find  it  not  at  all  in  the  wayi  We 
can  readily  apprehend  the  delight  he  felt  at  possessing  a  creature  so 
kind  and  sensitive ;  and  can  sympathize  with  him  in  the  happiness  of  that 
bridal  evening,  equally  removed  from  prudery  and  grossness,  which 
he  describes  with  a  mixture  of  sentiment  and  voluptiiousness  beyo[»d 
sll  the  bridals  wc  ever  read, 


THE  INDICATOR.  205 

To  Imagine  any  thing  like  a  sympathy  of  this  kind,  it  Is  of -course 
necessary  that  the  difference  of  form  should  consist  in  addition,  and, 
not  in  alteration.  But  the  un-augel-like  texture  of  the  flying  appa.* 
ratus  of  fair  Youwarkee  (such,  if  we  remember,  is  her  name)  helps  to. 
shew  us  the  main  reason  why  we  are  able  to  receive  pleasure  from  the 
histories  of  creatures  only  half-human.  The  habit  of  reading  prevents 
the  first  shock ;  but  we  are  reconciled  in  proportion  to  their  pos- 
session of  what  we  are  pleased  to  call  human  qualities.  Kindness  is 
the  great  elevator.  The  Centaurs  may  have  killed  all  the  Lapithae, 
and  shewn  considerable  generalship  to  boot,  without  reconciling  us  to 
the  brute  part  of  them  ;  but  the  brutality  melts  away  before  the  story 
of  their  two  lovers  in  Ovid.  Drunkenness  and  rapine  make  beasts  of 
them  ;— sentiment  makes  human  beings.  Polyphemus  in  Homer  is  a 
shocking  monster,  not  because  he  has  only  one  eye,  but  because  hfe 
murders  and  eats  our  fellow-creatures.  But  in  Theocritus,  where  he 
is  Galatea's  lover,  and  sits  hopelessly  lamenting  his  passion,  we  only 
gity  him.  His  deformity  even  increases  our  pity.  We  blink  the  ques- 
tion of  beauty,  and  become  one-eyed  for  his  sake.  Nature  seems  to 
do  him  an  injustice  in  gifting  him  with  sympathies  so  human,  and  at 
the  same  time  preventing  them  from  being  answered :  and  we  feel  im- 
patient with  the  all-beautiful  Galatea,  if  we  think  she  ever  shewed 
him  scorn  as  well  as  unwillingness.  We  insist  upon  her  avoiding  him 
with  the  greatest  possible  respect. 

These  fictions  of  tlie  poets  therefore,  besides  the  mere  excitement 
which  they  give  the  imagination,  assist  remotely  to  break  the  averse- 
ness  and  uncharitableness  of  human  pride.  And  they  may  blunt  the 
point  of  some  fancies  that  are  apt  to  come  upon  melancholy  minds. 
When  Sir  Thomas  Brown,  in  the  infinite  range  of  his  metaphysical 
optics,  turned  his  glass,  as  he  no  doubt  often  did,  towards  the  inha- 
bitants of  other  worlds,  the  stories  of  angels  and  Centaurs  would  help 
his  imaginative  good  nature  to  a  more  willing  conception  of  creatures 
in  other  planets  unlike  those  on  earth  ;  to  other  "  lords  of  creation  ;" 
and  other,  and  perhaps  nobler  humanities,  nobler  in  spirit,  though 
differing  in  form.  If  indeed  there  can  be  any  thing  in  the  starry  end- 
lessness of  existence,  nobler  than  what  we  can  conceive  of  love  and, 
generosit3\ 

But  to  our  story.  Ovid,  in  one  of  the  finest  parts  of  his  Meta- 
morphoses, has  recounted  the  famous  battle  of  the  Centaurs  and  La- 
pitha;.  Our  countrymen  have  the  happiness  of  possessing,  in  another 
shape,  another  fine  poem  on  the  same  subject ;  we  mean  the  divine 
sculptures  of  Phidias.  *     But  Ovid  is  as  powerful  in  his  way,  as  the 

*  We  never  observed  till  llie  other  day,  that  in  these  Marbles  the  Centaurs  are 
no  taller  than  the  Lapilhge.  Upon  thinking  of  the  matter,  we  believe  it  is  also  the 
same  in  most  engravings,  where  Centaurs  are  introduced  ;  certainly  in  some  old 
ones.  We  are  to  imagine  of  course,  not  that  the  Centaurs  were  of  the  same  height 
as  men  of  "  this  degenerate  age,"  and  ran  about  with  Welch  ponies  b^lynd  theiv, 
but  that  they  and  the  Lapitha:  were  of  gigantic  stature,  and  the  horse-part  as  large 
a*  the  finest  of  our  modern  steeds.  An  awkward  diHiculty  seems  sttll  to  remain  ; 
jince  the  horse,  iioweve):  large,  must  be  comparatively  smciU  to  a  horse  fit  for  a 


SOS  THE  INDICATOR, 

English  reader  may  see  in  the  versions  of  Dry  den  and  Sandys".  Phi- 
dias has  relieved  the  ferocity  of  his  story  with  some  exquisite  figures 
pf  women..  One  in  particular,  who  seems  fainting,  is  the  very  gentle 
essence  of  womanhood  personified.  Ovid,  more  exuberant,  though 
not  more  touching  in  his  imagination,  has  carried  the  refinement  far- 
ther; and  contradicting,  or  rather  varying,  with  a  solitary  and  strik- 
ing exception,  the  general  character  given  of  Centaurs,  has  introduced 
two  of  them  as  lovers,  remarkable  for  their  gentleness  and  beauty, 
and  dying  side  by  side.  The  story  is,  that  Pirithous  having  invited 
<^'  the  half-horsie  people"  to  his  wedding-feast,  when  he  married  Hip- 
podamia,  one  of  them  was  so  inflamed  with  the  beauty  of  the  bride, 
that  he  started  up  in  the  midst  of  the  drinking  and  carousing,  and  at- 
tempted to  carry  her  off.  Theseus,  the  friend  of  Pirithous,  seized  a 
great  antique  goblet,  craggy  with  sculpture,  and  dashed  his  face  to 
shatters  with  it,  so  that  he  died.  The  other  Centaurs,  seeing  their 
brother  killed,  grew  frantic  with  revenge;  and  a  tremendous  battle 
ensued.  The  whole  account  fills  the  ear  and  the  imagination, 
like  an  enormous  uproar.  It  is  a  gigantic  hubbub,  full  of  huge 
fists,  hoofs,  weapons,  and  flying  furniture,  chandeliers  torn  down, 
and  tables  snatched  up,  shrieks  of  females,  and  roarings  and  tram- 
plings  of  men  and  half-men.  One  of  the  LapithjB  makes  nothing  of 
Tending  away  a  door-post  that  would  load  a  waggon:  and  a  Centaur 
tears  up  an  altar  with  fire  upon  it,  and  sends  it  blazing  among  the 
enemy.  The  difterent  modes  in  which  the  deaths  are  inflicted  are  as 
Various  any  in  Homer ;  and  the  poet,  with  admirable  propriety,  has 
given  his  battle  all  the  additional  interest,  which  the  novelty  of  the 
^gures  engaged  in  it  could  suggest. 

The  episode  of  the  two  lovers  comes  but  of  all  this  hideous  tqrba- 
"lence,  like  the  dropping  of  rain  from  the  eaves  after  a  thunder-storm. 
If  we  are  asked  why  we  translate  it  after  Dryden  and  Sandys,  it  will 
be  sufficient  to  answer  that  it  gave  us  some  pleasant  moments  to  do  so  ; 
and  that  we  would  rather,  on  these  occasions,  furnish  something  origi- 
nal to  the  reader  than  translated.  But  our  readers~^nd  we  are  not 
quarrelsome  parties.  With  regard  to  the  measure,  we  have  chosen  it 
'as  the  most  capable  of  expressing  the  alternate  la?tity  and  compression, 
for  which  Ovid's  style  is  remarkable.  We  found  the  heroic  couplet 
'hamper  us,  tending  either  to  too  great  length  or  the  reverse  of 
it;  With  the  old  ballad  measure  before  us,  one  may  do  as  one 
pleases ;  and  there  is  something  in  it  that  suits  the  simplicity  of  the 
affections. 

Nor  could  til y  beauty,  Cyllarus, 

Protect  thee  in  the  fray; 
If  we  may  speak  of  shapes  like  tliiae 

After  u  human  way. 

'Lnpithite  to  ride.  But  the  reader  is  to  suppose,  that  there  were  no  horses  in  those 
days  to  provoke  tlie  comparison.  The  notion  of  the  "  lialf-horsie"  people  (as  Spen- 
ser, in  a  true  spirrt  of  poetical  composition,  ventures  to  call  them),  originated  in  ibe 
■wonder  with  which  men  on  horse-back  were  first  regarded.  When  the  Mexicaus 
first  beheld  Corleb  and  hi^  cavalry,  they  were  struck  with  the  same  idea. 


THE  INDICATOR.  f07 

His  beard  wa«  in  tiie  ffowery  bud  -       • 

Touched,  like  his  hair,  with  gold; 
And  down  beneath  his  shoulder  biades    -. 

His  tresses  ran  and  rolled.  .i   . 


An  earnest  cheer  was  in  his  look  ; 

And  every  human  part, 
His  neck,  iiis  shoulders,  hands,  and  breast. 

Matched  with  the  proudest  art.      .  . . 

Such  was  his  look  and  shape,  to  whert 

The  nether  form  began  ; 
Nor  where  he  put  the  courser  on, 

Dishonoured  he  the  man. 


Ev'r  Castor  might  have  ridden  Lirr, 
But  for  his  double  make; 

So  built  with  muscle  was  his  chest. 
So  rideable  his  back< 


And  blacker  was  his  noble  hue 
Than  is  the  pitchy  night; 

Only  a  snowy  tail  and  feet 
Finished  his  look  with  light. 

Many  fair  creatures  of  his  kind 
Besought  his  love;  b^t he 

W'as.bor.ne  away  by  only  oqej, 
The  sole  Hylonoine. 

No  gentle  woman-hearted  thing 
Of  all  the  half-Iuiman  race. 

Carried  about  the  shady  woods 
A  more  becoming  grace. 


With  pretty  naUiral  blahdiiihiBent^, 

And  loving,  and  at  last 
Owning  her  love  with  rosy  talk. 

She  bound  the  conqueror  fast. 

Her  limbs,  as  much  as  in  her  lay. 

She  kept  adorned  with  care. 
And  took  especial  pride  to  sleek 

Her  lightsome  locks  of  hair. 

With  rosemary  she  wreathed  th«m  now. 

With  violets  and  the  rose; 
And  now  betwixt  their  glossy  black. 

Sparkled  the  lily  snows.  . 

No  vest  but  of  the  choicest  skin, 

And  suiting  her,  she  wore. 
About  her  shoulder  crossing  round 

Beside  her  and  before. 


208  THE  INDICATOR. 

And  twice  a  day,  in  lapsing  wells 
That  from  the  woods  came  down, 

,Sh6  bathed  her  faoe  ;  and  twice  a  day. 
She  bathed  from  sole  to  crown. 

Equal  alike  the  beauty  was. 
Equal  the  love  in  cither; 
t  They  roamed  the  mountains  Iiand  in  )iand» 
Aild  sheltered  close  together. 

And  thus  did  they  attend  that  day 

The  Lapithean  bride; 
Thus  came  together,  and  thus  fought. 

Together,  side  by  side. 

A  javelin  from  an  unknown  hand 
Came  with  too  sure  a  dart. 

And  pierced' in  thee,  poor  CyllaruB, 
Eight  to  the  very  heart. 

He  drew  the.bitfer  weapon  out, ' 
And  shuddering;  all  over, 

Fell  against  pale  Hylonome, 
Whose  arms  received  her  loven 


And  with  her  hand  she  nursed  the  wound, 

Of  which  he  fast  was  dying, 
And  hurried  tifioiith  to  mouth,  and  tried 

To  stop  his  soul  from  flying. 

But  when;;sHe'f6uBd  it  all  in  vain,    '         I 

And  that  her  lord  was  dead. 
She  uttered  something  which  the  noisb 

Deafened  about  her  head  } 

And  falling  with  her  wedded  heart 

On  what  had  murdered  his. 
Gathered  him  blindly  in  her  arms, 

And  smiled  a  dying  kiss. 


Orders  received  by  the  Newsmen,  by  the  Booksellers,  and  by  the  Publisher,  Joseph  AppUyarf, 
J»rint«d  by  Joseph  Appleyard,  No,  19,  Catherine-»tre«t,  Strand. Pr ic«  9d, 


THE    INDICATOR, 


tliere  ha  arriving  round  about  doth  flie, 
And  takes  survey  with  busie  curious  eye  : 
Now  this,  now  that,  he  tasteth  teuderiv. 

SPHNSER. 


No.  XXVII.— WEDNESDAY,  APRIL  12th,   1820. 


THE  ADVENTURES  OF  CEPHALUS  AND  PROCRtS.. 

'  Cepiialus,  the  son  of  Deioneus,  king  of  Thessaly,  married  ProcriSj 
daughter  of  Pandion,  king  of  Athens.  They  bound  each  other  by  a 
Vow  never  to  love  any  one  else.  Cephalus,  who  was  fond  of  hunting, 
suffered  the  wood-nymphs  to  be  charming  to  no  purpose  ;  and  Procris^ 
waiting  his  return  every  day  from  the  chace,  scarcely  had  a  civil  an- 
swer for  the  most  agreeable  of  the  Wood-Gods. 

Their  security  in  each  others  exclusive  attachment  was  increased,  if 
possible,  by  a  passion  which  was  conceived  for  Cephalu^  by  Aurora^ 
the  Goddess  of  Morning.  To  think  that  the  beaming  eyes  and  rosy 
blushes  of  so  charming  a  deity  were  upon  him  every  morning  to  no 
purpose,  was  a  high  exaltation  to  the  proud  confidence  which  each, 
reposed  in  the  other.  Procris,  whom  the  very  particular  vow  which 
they  had  entered  into  had  begun  to  render  a  little  too  apt  to  be  jealouj, 
concluded  that  if  he  could  deny  a  goddess,  she  need  have  no  fear  of 
the  nymphs.  All  that  disturbed  her  was  lest  Aurora  should  grow 
angry.  Cephalus,  on  the  other  hand,  whatever  airs  he  might  occa* 
sionally  give  himself  on  the  strength  of  his  fidelity,  held  it  to  be 
■utterly  impossible,  that  his  wife  should  for  a  moment  forget  the 
rejecter  of  a  divinity. 

s  Aurora  however  was  not  angry.  She  was  too  much  in  love.  Cepha-. 
lus  began  to  foel  a  softer  pride  when  he  found  that  she  still  loved  him. 
•secretly,  and  that  she  did  all  in  her  power  to  gratify  him.  The  dawns! 
in  Thessaly  had  never  been  known  to  be  so  fine.  Rosy  little  clouds, 
floating  in  yellow  light,  were  sure  to  usher  in  the  day,  whatever  it 
might  turn  out  at  noon.  He  had  but  to  wish  for  more  air,  and  it  came 
streaming  upon  his  face.  Did  he  want  light  in  a  gloomy  depth  of  the 
forest?  Beams  thrilled  through  the  twisted  thickets,  and  made  the 
hunters  start  to  see  their  faces  so  plainly.  Some  said,  that  a  divine 
countenance  was  to  be  seen  at  these  times,  passing  on  the  other  side  of 
the  trees,  and  looking  through.  It  is  certain,  that  when  Cephalus  had 
lain  down  towards  noon  to  rest  himself  in  a  solitary  place,  he  would 
see,  as  he  woke,  a  nymph  suddenly  departing  from  the  spot,  whose 
hair  shook  out  a  kind  of  sunshine,  ^e  knew  that  this  was  Aurora, _« 
and  could  not  help  being  touched  by  so  delicate  an  aflection.  * 


210  THE  INDICATOR. 

By  degrees,  Cephalus  began  to  think  that  Procrls  might  spare  a  little 
of  so  great  a  love  ;  and  as  these  wicked  thoughts  stole  upon  him,  he 
found  Aurora  steal  nearer.  She  came  closer  to  him,  as  he  pretended 
to  sleep  ;  and  loitered  more  in  going  away.  At  length  they  conversed 
again  ;  and  the  argument,  which  was  uppermost  in  both  their  minds, 
soon  got  more  and  more  explicit.  We  are  bound  to  believe  that  a 
goddess  could  reason  more  divinely  on  the  subject;  but  it  must  not 
be  concealed,  that  the  argument  which  made  the  greatest  impression 
on  CephaluSj  was  one,  which  has  since  been  much  in  fashion,  though 
we  cannot  say  a  great  deal  for  it.  All  defences  of  love  should  pro- 
ceed upon  the  kindest  grounds,  or  on  none.  The  moment  it  refers  to 
anything  like  retialiation,  or  even  to  a  justice  which  hazards  such 
feelings,  it  is  trenching  on  the  monstrous  territory  of  hate.  Be  this 
however  as  it  may,  Aurora,  one  morning,  did  certainly  condescend  to 
finish  a  conversation  with  saying,  that  she  would  not  look  to  have  Tier 
love  returned,  unless  Procris  should  first  be  found  unfaithful. 

The  husband,  in  whose  mind  this  suggestion  seemed  to  awaken  all 
his  exclusive  tenderness  for  his  wife,  readily  accepted  the  alternative. 
But  how  was  Procris  to  be  tried  ?  Aurora  soon  found  an  expedient. 
She  changed  the  appearance  of  Cephalus  to  that  of  a  young  Phoenician 
merchant;  filled  his  pockets  with  gold  and  jewels  ;  hung  the  rarest 
gems  from  Ormus  and  the  Red  Sea  in  his  turban  ;  and  seating  him  in 
a  Sidonian  ear,  drawn  by  wTiite  fawns,  with  a  peacock  standing  beside 
him  on  the  edge,  sent  him  to  offer  all  these  bribes  to  Procris  for  her 
love.  Cephalus  turned  a  little  pale  at  sight  of  the  fawns ;  but  his 
colour  and  even  his  gaiety  returned  in  a  minute ;  and  taking  a  respect- 
ful farewell  of  the  Goddess,  he  shook  the  reinsj  and  set  off  down  the 
grassy  valley  that  led  to  his  home. 

The  faw^ns,  with  a  yearning  yet  easy  swiftness,  wound  along  down 
the  sides  of  the  hill.  Their  snowy  figures  flashed  in  and  out  of  the 
trees  ;  the  peacock's  tail  trailed  along  the  air  ;  the  jewels  sparkled  in 
the  stranger's  turban.  Procris,  looking  out  of  the  window  for  her 
husband,  wondered  what  illustrious  unknown  was  coming.  He  is 
evidently  coming  towards  her  abode.  It  is  the  only  one  in  the  valley. 
He  arrives,  and  making  a  respectful  obeisance,  alights  and  enters.  He 
makes  no  request  for  admittance,  but  yet  no  fault  is  to  be  found  with 
his  easy  gravity.  He  says  indeed  that  he  could  not  but  come  in, 
whether  he  would  or  no,  for  the  fame  of  Procris's  beauty  and  sweet- 
ness had  reached  him  in  Phoenicia ;  and  as  his  father's  great  riches 
allowed  him  to  travel  at  his  leisure,  he  had  brought  a  few  trifles, — 
not  as  a  return  for  the  few  hours'  hospitality  which  he  should  presume 
upon; — by  no  means ;— but  solely  as  he  had  not -wit  or  attraction 
enough  of  his  own,  to  leave  any  other  memorial  of  his  visit  and  homage. 
All  this  was  somewhat  too  elaborate  for  the  people  in  those  days  ;  but 
Cephalus,  in  his  confidence,  had  become  a  little  over-ingenious  ;  and 
when  he  had  done  speaking,  and  had  presentedhis  splendid  credentials, 
Procris  thought  that  the  accomplished  stranger  undervalued  himself. 
A  little  obstacle  presented  itself.  On  giving  her  the  peacock,  the 
handsome  stranger  stooped  his  face  with  an  air  of  confident  but  re- 
spectful pleasure,  and  was  about  to  kiss  her.    ^,How  is  this  V[  said 


THE  INDICATOR.  211 

Procris.     ^'  We  always  do  so  in  Phcenicla,"  said  he,  "  when  presents 
are  received  ;"  and  without  more  ado,  he  kissed  her  in  a  sort  of  formal 
and  cabalistic  manner,  first  on  one   cheek,  then  on  the  other,  and 
lastly  on   the  forehead.     Procris  submitted,  purely  because  she  did 
not  know  how  to  object  to  a  Phoenician  custom.     Bat  on  his  present- 
ing a  casket  full  of  gold,  she  demurred.     He  seemed  to  take  no  notice 
of  this,  but  stooped  as  before,  and  kissed  her,  not  only  on  the  cheeks 
and  forehead,  but  on  the  lips.     Procris  blushed,  and  looked  displeased. 
"  We  always  do  so  in  Phcsuicia;"  said  he,  in  a  tone,  as  if  all  oifence 
must  be  done  away  by  that  explanation.     Another  casket  succeededj 
full  of  jewels,  and  much  more  precious  than  the  last.     Procris  won- 
dered whether  any  additional  ceremony  was  to  take  place  in  return, 
and  was  about  to  decline  the  third  present  in  some  alarm,  when  the 
stranger,  with  as  brief  an  indifference  of  voice  as  his  gallantry  could 
assume,  observed,  that  all  that  was  to  be  done  for  the  third  gift,  was  to 
have  the  kiss  returned, — slightly,  it  was  true;  but  still  returned: — • 
it  was  always  the  way  in  Phoenicia.     And  he  had  scarcely  spoken  the 
word  when  he  stooped  as  before,  and  kissed  her.     Procris  would  sin- 
cerely have  objected  to  returning  the  salute;  but  as  she  said  after- 
wards,  she  really  had  not  time  to  consider.     Besides,  she  persuaded 
herself  that  She  felt  relieved  at  thinking  the  casket  was  to  be  the  last 
present ;  and  so, — giving  a  short  glance  at  the  window, — the  kiss  was 
returned.     A  very  odd,  and  not  comfortable  expression  passed  ovep 
the  face  of  the  stranger,  but  very  quickly.     The  only  reason  that 
Procris  could  conceive  why  he  should  look  so,  was,  that  the  salute 
might  have  been  too  slight.     "  He  is  very  generous,  I  own,"  thought, 
she  ;  "  but  these  Phoenicians  are  strange  people."     The  stranger  had 
now  a  totally  different  air.     It  was  that  of  an  excessive  gaiety,  in 
which  respect  was  nevertheless  strongly  mingled.     "  Having  honoured 
me  so  far  with  your  acquaintance,"  said  he,  "  nothing  remains  but  to 
close  our  Phoenician  ceremonies  of  introduction  with  this  trifle  from 
the  Red  Sea."     So  saying,  he  took  a  most  magnificent  ruby  from  the 
front  of  his  turban,  and  hitched  it  on  the  collar  of  her  vest.     "  The 
hook,  "  said  he,  "  is  of  Phoenician  chrystal."     Proccis's  ears  fairly 
tingled  with  the  vsord  Phcenician,     She  was  bewildered  ;  the  cere- 
monies were  indeed  about  to  close;  and  this  word  somewhat  relieved 
her  ;  but  she  was  going  to  demiJr  in  a  more  peremptory  manner^  when 
he  said  that  alL  that  was  to  be  done  on  this  final  occasion  was  just  to 
embrace  him — slightly— in  a  sisterly  way  ;— "  It  is  not  always  done," 
said  he  :— "  the  Tyre  people,  for  instance,  do  not  do  it ;  but  the  Sido- 
nians  do ;  and  generally  speaking,  it  is  the  closing  custom  in  Phoe- 
nici-"— -and  the  final  syllable  was  lost  in  a  new  kiss,  against  whichj 
she  found  it   out  of  her  power  to  remonstrate.     In  giving  her  at  the, 
same  time  a  brief  but-affectionate  embrace,  he  contrived  to  bring  heq 
arms  about  himself.     He  then  bowed  in  the  most  respectful  and  grate-;, 
ful  manner  imaginable,  and  handed  her  to  a  seat. 

Procris,  with  whom  the  ice  had  been  thus  broken,  and  who  already 
thought  herself  half  faithless  to  the  strictness  of  her  vow,  scarcely 
knew  whether  to  feel  more  angry  at  the  warmth,  or  piqued  at  the 
ceremonious  indiiference,  of  the  stranger.    A  sense  however  of  gra- 


212  THE  mDICATOR. 

tinea  pride,  and  of  his  extraordinary  generosity,  was  the  uppermost 
feeling  in  her  mind ;  and  this  led  her  to  be  piqued  rather  than  angry. 
Luckily,  she  bethought  herself  of  offering  him  the  hospitality  of  the 
house,  which  helped  to  divert  her  confusion.  The  milk  and  fruit 
were  brought  out ;  and  he  tasted  them,  more,  it  seemed,  out  of  po- 
liteness, than  for  want  of  refreshment.  Procris  cast  her  eyes,  first  up 
the  hill,  and  then  at  the  fawns.  She  wondered  whether  the  fawns  and 
car  would  follow  the  other  presents ;  but  upon  the  whole  concluded 
they  would  not,  unless  the  traveller  meant  to  stop,  which  was  impos- 
sible ;  at  least  in  that  house.  She  made  up  her  mind  therefore  to  be 
Tery  angry  in  case  he  should  offer  the  fawns ;  when  he  interrupted 
any  farther  reflections.  "  Those  fawns,"  said  he,  "  came  into  my 
possession  in  a  remarkable  manner.  They  are  fatal."  "  Fatal  r" 
echoed  Procris.  "  Not  in  a  bad  sense,"  returned  the  stranger,  smil- 
ing :  "  I  am  destined  to  present  them  to  some  fair  one,  (I  know  not 
who  she  is),  who  shall  honour  me  with  the  privileges  of  a  husband, 
and  who  is  to  be  fairer  than  the  Goddess  that  gave-  them  me."  "  A^ 
strange  impossible  condition,"  said  Procris;  "  but  who,  pray  was  the 
Goddess?" — "Aurora." — The  beautiful  wife  of  Cephalus  smiled  vic- 
toriously at  the  mention  of  that  name.  She  had  already  triumphed 
over  the  divinity,  and  thought  that  this  new  test  of  superiority  was 
scarcely  necessary.  The  Phoenician,  upon  seeing  her  turn  of  coun- 
tenance, added  significantly  ;  *'  I  saw  her  just  now,  and  must  confess 
that  it  will  take  something  very  extraordinary  to  surpass  her  ;  but  I 
<Jo  not  conceive  it  actually  impossible."  Procris  longed  to  tell  him  of 
Aurora's  unsuccessful  passion  for  Cephalus.  She  asked  how  long  it 
was,  since  be  had  seen  the  Goddess.  "  I  saw  her  but  now,"  said  the 
stranger:  "  she  was  conversing  in  the  forest  here."  "  Do  you  know 
"With  whom  ?"  askod  Procris,  "  Oh  yes;  it  was  your  husband  :  and 
this  reminds  me,  that  he  told  me  to  beg  you  not  to  be  alarmed,  but 
Jie  should  not  return  till  night-fall."  "  "  Not  till  night-fall  ?"  half 
murmured  and  half  enquired  the  fair  conqueror  of  Aurora. — Now  this 
was  wrong  in  Cephalus.  He  was  led  into  the  mention  of  his  interview 
with  Aurora  by  it's  being  actually  the  case ;  but  he  need  not  have 
gone  so  far  with  the  lesson  she  had  taught  him.  We  blush  to  say  that 
it  succeeded  but  too  well.  There  is  no  necessity  to  pursue  the  detail 
farther.  Towards  night-^fall  Procris  gave  anxious  looks  up  the  hillj 
find  hoped  (which  Avas  kind  of  her)  that  her  husband  might  receive 
great  pleasure  from  the  present  she  intended  to  make  him' of  the 
fawns,  *^  I  think  he  is  coming  down  the  hill,"  said  she.  "  No,"  said 
the  stranger.  "  How  can  you  tell,"  returned  Procris,  "  with  your 
face  turned  from  the  window  ?"  "  Look  at  me,"  replied  he,  "  and 
you  will  know."  Propris  turned  quickly,  and  looked  him  in  the  face. 
It  was  Cephalus  himself.  Astonishment,  fear,  shame,  and  a  sense  of 
the  triumphant  artifice  of  the  Goddess,  fell  upon  her  at  once.  She 
uttered  a  loud  shriek ;  and  tearing  her  vest  froriti  her  husband's  §rasp, 
darted  off  into  the  woods. 

Ceplialus,  in  his  chariot  of  fawns,  sought  her  a  hundred  ways  in 
vain.  He  was  at  once  angry  and  sorry  :  and  Aurora  found  that  her 
p.rtiftce  had  l^eep  of  no  use.    She  hoped  however  that  time,  and  tlje 


T|IE  INDICATOR.  213 

absence  of  his  wife,  would  mollify  him  ;  and  in  the  mean'.vhile,  seeing 
how  sullenly  he  turned  aside  whenever  she  ventured  to  become  mani- 
fest, she  tried  to  humble  him  a  little.  His  skill  became  less  super- 
eminent  in  the  chace.  Other  dogs  ran  faster  than  his ;  and  othe*- 
lances  took  truer  aim.  The  gloom  of  the  forest  was  still  enlightened 
for  him,  because  she  did  not  wish  to  let  him  know  how  she  was  trying 
him;  but  the  name  of  Cephalus  suffered  in  it's  reputation.  People 
began  to  say  that  Phalerus  was  as  good  as  he. 

He  was  sitting  at  home  one  evening  in  a  melancholy  manner,  after 
an  unsuccessful  day's  sport,  when  a  beautiful  female  with  a  dog  ap- 
peared at  the  door^  and  begged  permission  to  rest  herself.  The  faint-* 
ness  of  her  voice  interested  our  suffering  huntsman.  He  brought  her 
in  Avith  great  kindness,  set  refreshments  before  her,  and  could  not  help 
gazing  with  admiration  on  her  lovely  face,  which  covered  with  blushes, 
looked  with  a  particularly  melancholy  expression  on  the  fruits  and 
the  bowls  of  cream.  He  thought  he  distressed  her,  and  began  playing 
in  a  negligent  manner  with  the  dog.  The  animal,  at  a  slight  snap  of 
his  fingers,  darted  up  on  his  legs  like  lightning,  and  stood  panting 
and  looking  eagerly  towards  the  door.  Cephalus  had  tlie  finest  dogs 
in  Thessaly,  yet  he  doubted  whether  this  was  not  finer  than  any  of 
them.  He  looked  at  the  female,  and  now  saw  that  she  was  buskined 
up  like  a  nymph  of  the  chace.  "  The  truth  flashes  upon  me,"  thought 
he;  "  this  is  a  fugitive  nymph  of  Diana.  Her  buskins  and  her  blushes 
tell  her  whole  story."  i  The  fair  stranger  seemed  first  oppressed,  and 
then  relieved'by  his  gaze.  ''  You  guess,"  said  she,  "  but  too  well,  I 
fear,  what  has  put  me  upon  your  kind  hospitality.  But  the  othef 
sex,  especially  where  they  are  of  the  best  natures,  will  be  too  kind  to 
betray  me.  I  have  indeed  fled  from  the  company  of  Diana,  having 
been  first  left  myself  by  a  River-God,  who" — She  blushed,  and  was 
silent.  "And  this  dog?''  enquired  Cephalus,  after  reassuring  her. 
"  It  was  my  favourite  dog  in  the  chace,"  said  she  ;  "  now  my  faithful 
companion  in  flight.  Poor  Lailaps  !"  And  the  dog,  forgetting  his 
vivacity  in  an  instant,  came  and  lay  at  his  mistress's  feet,  as  if  he 
would  have  wound  about  them.  They  were  very  beautiful  feet. 
"  The  River-God  doubtless  admired  them,"  thought  Cephalus.  But 
there  was  a  something  in  her  face  more  touching  than  all  the  shapeli- 
ness in  the  world.  It  was  a  mixture  of  the  pensive  and  the  pleasurable, 
which  seemed  to  say  that  if  she  had  no  cause  for  trouble,  she  would 
have  been  all  tender  vivacity.  "  And  whither  are  you  going,  fairest  ?" 
asked  Cephalus.  "  To  Cjprus." — "  To  the  temple  of  Venus  ?" — 
"  To  the  temple  of  Venus  :"  replied  the  beautiful  stranger,  dropping 
her  words  and  face  as  she  spoke.  *'  I  have  made  a  new  vow,  which' — 
a  new  vow."  And  blushing  more  deeply,  she  was  again  silent.— 
*'  Which  she  shall  be  able  to  keep  better  then  the  last,"  fhoBght  Cep- 
halus. She  sat  in  a  sitipple  posture,  her  back  g-ently  bending,  her 
knees  together,  her  rosy  face  and  languid  eyes  looking  down  sideways 
between  her  dark  heavy  curls.  She  moved  the  fingers  of  her  right  hand 
towards  the  dog,  as  if  snappirig  them  ;  but  it  was  done  faintly,  and  evi- 
dently only  to  do  something.  Cephalus  thought  she  had- a  look  of/ 
Procris  •   and  he  did  uot  pity  her   the  less  for  that.     "  But  wha 


«14  THE  INDICATOR. 

are  you  to-  do  with  this  dog  ?"  This,  it  seemed,  was  a  very  perplexing 
question.  It  was  a  long  time  before  Cephalus  could  get  an  answer; 
but  he  was  so  kind  and  importunate,  and  really,  with  all  his  love  of 
hunting,  appeared  to  be  so  much  more  interested  in  the  nymph  thaa 
her  companion,  that  at  length  he  did  obtain  a  sr.rt  of  understanding 
on  the  subject.  It  was  necessary  to  make  a  renouncement  of  some- 
thing highly  Talued  by  the  possessor,  before  a  new  devotee  could  enter 
on  the  service  of  Venus.  The  renouncement  was  to  be  made  to  one 
of  the  other  sex  ;  and  CephakiSj  partly  out  of  curiosity,  partly  out  of 
vanity,  partly  out  of  self-interest,  and  not  a  little  out  of  an  interest 
of  a  better  sort,  contrived  to  discover,  that  it  would  be  made,  with 
no  prodigious  unwillingness,  to  himself.  "  I^ailaps,''  said  he.  The 
dog  started  to-wards  him,  as  if  he  knew  his  future  master.  The  lady 
gave  a  gentle  laugh,  and  seemed  much  happier.  The  supper,  that 
evening,  was-  upon  a  much  easier  footing  than  the  luncheon.  ^The 
next  morning,  on  waking,  Cephalus,  saw  the  face  of  Procris  hanging 
over  him.  He  would  have  been  more  astonished  had  he  not  remem- 
bered liis  own  transformation.  But  he  was  nevertheless  quite  enough  - 
so,  Procris  shook  her  head  at  him  archly;  then  kissed  him  kindly; 
then  burst  into  tears;  then  declared  herself  happy  and  forgiving,  as 
well  as  forgiven  ;  and  neither  of  them  ever  passed  a  happier  day  ia 
their  lives. 

Procris's  account  of  herself  was  partly  true.  Our  informant*  does 
not  account  for  a  proceeding  which  certainly  requires  some  explana- 
tion ;  but  she  had  really  gone  to  the  haunts  of  Diana,  whose  recep- 
tion of  her,  though  a  huntress,  was  what  might  have  been  expect- 
ed. She  begged,  her,  in  very  explicit  terms,  to  withdraw.  Pro- 
cris, however,  though  she  could  obtain  no  sympathy  purely  on  her 
own  account,  contrived  to  waken  an  interest  in  the  bosom  of  the 
divine  virgin  by  telling  her  of  the  trick  played  by  Cephalus  and  Au- 
rora, This  she  thought  abominable.  She  therefore  wrought  a  coun- 
ter-change in  the  appearance  of  Procris;  and  giving  her  a  hound  out 
of  her  own  pack,  sent  her  to  practise  artifice  for  artifice.  She  re- 
gretted afterwards  the  having  consented  to  interfere  at  all  in  such 
jnatters;  but  the  impulse  had  engaged. her  to  commit  herself;  and  she 
was  too  proud  and  stately  to  recall  what  she  had  done.  Procris  told 
all  to  her  husband  ;  and  the  goddess  was  little  aware  how  they  en« 
jfoyied  the  kind  result  of  her  anger,  at  the  expense  of  her  dignity. 

It  is  on  record,  that  our  married  couple  were  never  so  fond  of  each 
©ther,  or  so  contented,  as  now.  Procris,  in  the  gratitude  of  her  joy, 
was  not  disposed  even  to  quarrel  with  Aurora,  whom  her  husband  no 
doubt  saw  occasionally.  JBut  it  is  not  known  whether  he  was  kinder 
to  heu  than  before.  Procris  was  inclined  to  think  not,,  as  he  said 
nodring  about  it ;  so  certain  she  had  become  of  his  confidence.  A^ 
*0  Cephalus,  the  praises  of  his  wife  by  his  fellow-huntsmen  gave 
liiin  great  pleasure,  now  that  he  was  sure  of  her  loving  him  unre- 
ygtrictedly, 

What  a  pity  that  such  a  happy  state  of  things  was  not  to  last !    Bui 
'tccris  had  early  been  taught  jealousy.     She  liad  even  identified  it 

*  llvgiuOs  Fabularuni  LiWer*  Cs\-f.  lb'9. 


THE  INDICATOR.  215 

with  a  virtue  ;  and  by  degrees,  as  little  fits  of  111  temper  were  ex- 
changed, and  she  began  to  think  less  kindly  of  herself,  she  began  to 
be  uneasy  about  others.  Unfortunately  for  this  return  of  her  com- 
plaint, a  little  anxious  busy-body,  whom  she  had  been  accustomed  to 
treat  with  contemptuous  indifference,  perhaps  to  shew  it  too  much, 
came  and  said  to  her  one  day,  that  as  she  knew  she  should  not  be 
mortifying  her  with  such  petty  matters,  she  might  tell  her,  as  a  piece 
of  news,  that  Gephalus  was  passionately  and  notoriously  in  love  with 
a  beautiful  nymph  of  the  name  of  Aura.  "  Aurora,  you  mean,'* 
said  Procris,  scornfully.  *'  No,  no,"  said  the  little  snappish  voice ; 
"  Aura,  Aura :— -I  know  it  well  enough ;  all  Athens  knows  it,  or 
else  I  should  not  have  repeated  it.  I  am  no  tale-bearer ;  but  I  hate 
to  see  a  man  pretending  to  be  what  he  is  no't."  "  Cephalus  pretends 
nothing,"  said  Procris.  "  Oh — of  course,"  said  the  gossip ;  "  and 
mighty  useful  it  is  to  him  no  doubt,  to  be  so  wanting  in  pretence. 
But  my  maxim  is,  Be  decent  enough,  at  least,  to  appear  virtuous." 
"  Yes,"  though!  Procris,  "  and  your  whole  life  would  be  an  exempli- 
fication of  it,  if  you  could  hold  your  tongue."  But  the  blow  was 
struck.     She  despised  the  scandal,  while  she  became  it's  victim. 

Procris,  who  was  on  a  visit  with  Cephalus  to  her  father,  had  heard  of  a 
spot,  in  which  he  reposed  himself  every  day  after  the  chace.  Here,  it  was 
added,  the  lady  as  regularly  met  him.  He  was  even  so  impatient  for 
her  sight,  that  if  she  delayed  a  minute  beyond  the  usual  time,  he 
called  upon  her  aloud,  in  the  fondest  manner.  "  Come,  come,  s*,veet 
Aura,"  sfeiid  he,  "  and  cool  this  glow  in  my  bosom." 

Now  his  delight  in  the  new  spot,  and  the  invocation  also,  were  both 
very  true;  only  the  jnformant  forget  to  mention,  and  Procris  to  re- 
member, that  although  Aura  was  the  name  of  a  female,  it  also  signified 
the  fresh  air. 

One  day,  Cephalus  went  as  usual  into  his  favourite  haunt,  to  enjoy 
it's  freshness,  verdure,  and  seclusion.  The  place  has  been  very  pret- 
tily described  by  Ovid. 

Est  prope  purpureos  colles  florentis  Hymetli 
Fons  sacer,  et  viridi  cespite  mollis  liumiis. 
Sylya  nemus  non  alta/acit:  tegit  arbutus  herbam  : 

■  Ros  maris,  et  lauri,  nigraque  myrtus  olent. 
Nee  deiiRae  foliis  buxi,  fragilesque  mvcicse. 
Nee  tenues  cytisi,  cultaqiie  pinus  abest. 
Lenibus  impulsae  Zepbyris,  wuraque  salubri, 

Tot  geiierum  frondes,  hetbaque  summa  tremuiit. 

^rt.  Amat.  Lib.  III.  v.  687. 

"  Close  by  tlie  flowery  purple  hill 
Hymettus,  may  be  found  — 

A  sacred  fourntain,  and  a  piot 
Of  green  and  lovely  ground. . 

Tis  in  a  copse.    The  strawberry 
Grows  blushing  throogh  the  grass; 
And  myrtle,  rosemary,  and  bay 
Quite  perfume  all  the  place. 

Nor  is  the  tamarisk  wanting  there  ; 

Nor  clumps  of  leafy  box  ; 
Ner  slender  cytisus;  nor  yet  / 

The  pine  with  it's  proud  locks. 


216  THE  INDICATOR. 

Toiiclipd  by  the  7e|)hyrs  one!  sweet  airs,  ' 
Which  there  in  balm  asspnible, 
^  Tliis  little  world  of  leaves,  and  all 

The  tops  of  the  grass  tremble. 

'  C<'pltalus  lay  upon  a  slope  of  the  velvet  ground,  his  hands  behind 
his  head,  and  his  face  towards  the  balmy  heaven.  He  little  thought 
that  Procris  was  near.  She  was  lurking  close  to  him  behind  some  box* 
trees.  She  listened.  There  was  not  a  sound,  but  that  of  the  fountain^ 
the  uoise  of  whose  splashes  was  softened  by  the  trees  that  half  encircled 
it.  She  I'tstened  again,  thinking  she  heard  her  husband  speak;-  It  was 
only  the  fervid  bees,  buzzing  along  from  Hymettus,  and  murmuring  as 
if  disdainfully  in  her  ear.  A  variety  of  feelings  agitate  her.  Now  she 
is  sorry  that  she  came,  and  would  have  given  any  thing  to  be  back 
again.  Now  she  longs  to  know  who  her  rival  is.  Now  she  is  sorry 
again,  and  feels  that  her  conduct  is  unworthy,  let  her  husband's  be 
what  it  may.  Now  she  reassures  herself,  and  thinks,  that  he  should 
have  at  least  been  ingenuous.  Jealousy  and  curiosity  prevail,  and  she 
still  looks  and  listens.  The  air  seems  more  then  usually  quiet ;  and 
the  bees  worry  her  with  their  officious  humming.  Cephalus  leaps  up, 
tod  plays  idly  with  his  javelin.  Still  nothing  is  said.  Nobody  appears. 
She  expects  the  lady  every  minute  to  issue  from  the  trees  ;  and  thinks 
how  she  shall  confound  her.  But  no  one  comes.  At  last,  her  husband 
speaks.  She  parts  th4  box-trees  a  little  more,  to  listen  the  keener. 
*'  (Jome,  gentle  Aura,"  cried  he,  as  if  in  a  tone  of  reproach  ; — '•  Come, 
and  breathe  refreshment  uporvme: — thou  scarcely  stirrest  the  poplars 
to  day."  Procris  leaped  up  in  an  extacy  of  delight  and  remorse,  and 
began  tearing  back  the  boughs  to  go  to  her  husband.-  He  starts  up. 
He  thinks  it  a  deer  hampered  in  the  thicket,  and  raises  his  javelin  to 
dart  it.     Forbear,  forbear,  miserable  man  :  it  is  thy  more  miserable 

.  wife ! '  Alas!  the  javelin  is  thrown,  and  the  wife  pierced.  Upon 
coming  up  to  secure  his  prey,  he  finds,  with  a  dumb  despair,  that  it 
is  Procris  dying.  She  does  not  reproach  him.  She  reproaches  only 
ht'rsQlf.  "Forgive  me,"  said  she,  "  dear  Cephalus,"  pressing  her 
cheek  against  his :  "  I  was  made  wise  in  vain  once,  and  I  am  now  wise 
again  too  late.  Forgive  my  poor  jealous  heart,  and  bless  me.  It  weeps 
blood  for  it's  folly."  And  as  she  spoke,  she  sobbed  aloud ;  and  the  peni- 
tent tears  gushed  away,  as  if  to  emulate  the  gushing  of  her  heart.  Cepha- 
lus, bewildered  ajtd  agonized,  uttered  what  kind  and  remorseful  words 
his  lipscouldframe,  pressing  her  all  the  while  gently  to  his  heart.  He  saw 
that  the  wound  was  mortal,  and  it  was  quickly  so.  Her  eyes  faded  away 
while  looking  at  him  ;  but  opening  her  lips,  she  still  made  a  yearning 

-movement  of  them  towards  his.     It  reminded  him  of  paying  that  affec-r^^ : 
tiOnate  office  to  the  departing  spirit ;  and,  stooping  with  a  face  washed 
in  tears,  he  put  his  mouth  upon  her's,  and  received  at  once  her  last 
kiss  and  breath. 


Orders  received  by  the  Newsmen,  by  tlie  Booksellers*  and  by  tlM?  Publisher,  Joseph  Appleyard* 
Printed  by  Joseph  Api/leyard,  No.  19,  (3«tl»erine-»trcet,  Stran'4,^— Price  9d. 


I 


THE    INDICATOR 


There  he  arriving  round  about  doth  flie. 
And  takes  survey  with  busie  curious  eye  : 
Kow  tliis,  now  that,  he  tastcth  tenderly. 

Sfenser. 


No.  XXVIII.— WEDNESDAY,  APRIL  19th,   1820. 


SPRING.— DAISIES.— GATHERING  FLOWERS 

The  Spring  is  now  complete.  The  winds  have  done  their  workv 
The  shaken  air,  well  tempered  and  equalized,  has  subsided ;  the  genial 
rains,  however  thickly  they  may  come,  do  not  saturate  the  ground, 
beyond  the  power  of  the  sun  to  dry  it  up  again*  There  are  clear 
chrystal  biornings ;  noons  of  blue  sky  and  white  cloud ;  nights,  in. 
tvhich  the  growing  mooa  seems  to  lie  looking  at  the  stars,  like  a 
young  shepherdess  at  her  flock,  A  few  days  ago  she  lay  gazing  in 
this  manner  at  the  solitary  ev&ning  star,  like  Diana,  on  the  slope  of  a 
valley,  looking  up  at  Endymion.  His  young  eye  seemed  to  sparkle 
out  upon  the  world;  while  she,  bending  inwards,  her  hands  be- 
hind her  head,  watched  him  with  an  enamoured  dumbness. 

But  this  is  the  quiet  of  Spring.  It's  voices  and  swift  movements 
have  come  back  also.  The  swallow  shoots  by  us,  like  an  embodied 
ardour  of  the  season.  The  glowing  bee  has  his  will  of  the  honied 
flowers,  grappling  with  them  as  they  tremble.  We  have  not  yet  heard 
the  nightingale  or  the  cuckoo  ;  but  "we  can  hear  them  with  our  imagi- 
nation, and  enjoy  them  thrO;Ugh  the  content  of  those  who  have. 

Then  the  young  green.  This  is  the  most  apt  and  perfect  mark  of 
the  season, — the  true  issuing  forth  of  the  Spring.  The  trees  and 
bushes  are  putting  forth  their  crisp  fans;  the  lilac  is  loaded  with  bud  j 
the  meadows  are  thick  with  the  bright  young  grass,  running  into  sweeps 
of  white  and  gold  with  the  daisies  and  buttercups.  The  orchards  an- 
nounce their  riches,  in  a  shower  of  silver  blossoms.  The  earth  in  fer- 
tile woods  is  spread  with  yellow  and  blue  carpets  of  primroses,  violets, 
and  hyacinths,  over  which  the  birch-trees,  like  stooping  nymphs,  hang 
with  their  thickening  hair.  Lilies  of  the  valley,  stocks,  columbines, 
lady-smocks,  and  the  intensely  red  piony  which  seems  to  anticipate 
the  full  glow  of  summer-time,  all  come  out  to  wait  upon  the  season, 
like  fairies  from  their  subterraneous  palaces. 

Who  is  to  wonder  that  the  idea  of  love  mingles  itself  with  that  of 
this  cheerful  and  kind  time  of  the  year,  setting  aside  even  common 


218  THE  INDICATOR. 

associations  >  It  is  not  only  it's  youth,  and  beauty,  and  budding  life, 
and  "  the  passion  of  the  grores,"  that  exclaim  with  the  poet, 

Let  those  love  nowj  who  never  loved  before ; 
And  those  who  always  loved,  now  love  the  more*. 

All  our  kindly  impulses  are  apt  to  hare  more  sentiment  in  them,  than 
the  world  suspect ;  and  it  is  by  fetching  out  this  sentiment,  and  making 
it  the  ruling  association^  that  we  exalt  the  impulse  into  generosity  and 
refinement,  instead  of  degrading  it,  as  is  too  much  the  case,  into  what 
is  selfish,  and  coarse,  and  pollutes  all  it's  systems.  One  of  the 
greatest  inspirers  of  love  is  gratitude, — ^not  merely  on  it's  common 
grounds,  but  gratitude  for  pleasures,  whether  consciously  or  uncon- 
sciously, conferred.  Thus  we  are  thankful  for  the  delight  given  us  by 
.a  kind  and  sincere  face ;  and  if  we  fall  in  love  with  it,  one  great  reason 
is,  that  we  long  to  return  what  we  hare  received.  The  same  feeling 
has  a  considerable  influence  in  the  love  that  has  been  felt  for  men  of 
talents,  whose  persons  or  address  have  not  been  much  calculated  to 
inspire  it.  In  spring-time,  joy  awakens  the  heart :  with  joy,  awakes 
gratitude  and  nature ;  and  in  our  gratitude,  we  return,  on  it's  own 
principle  of  participation,  the  love  that  has  been  shewn  us. 

This  association  of  ideas  renders  solitude  in  spring,  and  solitude  in 
winter,  two  very  different  things.  In  the  latter,  we  are  better  con- 
tent to  bear  the  feelings  of  the  season  by  ourselves : — in  the  former 
they  are  sp  sweet  as  well  as  so  overflowing,  that  we  long  to  share  them. 
Shakspeare,  in  one  of  his  sonnets,  describes  himself  as  so  identifying 
the  beauties  of  the  spring  with  the  thought  of  his  absent  mistress,  that 
he  says  he  forgot  them  in  their  own  character,  and  played  with  them 
only  as  with  her  shadow.  See  ^ow  exquisitely  he  turns  a  common- 
place into  this  fancy ;  and  what  a  noble  brief  portrait  of  April  he  gives 
us  at  the  beginning.  There  is  indeed  a  wonderful  mixture  of  softness 
and  strength  in  almost  every  one  of  the  lines. 

From  you  have  I  been  absent  in  the  spring. 

When  proud'pied  April,  dressed  in  all  his  trim, 

Hath  put  a  spirit  of  youth  in  every  thing; 

That  heavy  Saturn  laughed  and  leaped  with  him. 

Yet  nor  the  lays  of  birds,  nor  the  sweet  smell 

Of  different  flowers  in  odour  and  in  hue. 

Could  make  me  any  summer's  story  tell. 

Or  from  their  proud  lap  pluck  them  where  they  grew : 

Nor  did  I  wonder  at  the  lilies  white. 

Nor  praise  the  deep  vermilion  in  the  rose  J 

They  were  but  sweet,  bulf  patterns  of  delight,  , 

Drawn  after  you,  you  pattern  of  all  those. 

Yet  seemed  it  winter  still ;  and,  you  away. 

As  with  your  shadow,  I  with  these  did  play. 

Shakspeare  was  fond  of  alluding  to  ApriU  He  did  not  allow  May  to 
have  all  his  regard,  because  she  was  richer.  Perdita,  crowned  with 
flowers,  in  the  Winter's  Tale,  is  beautifully  compared  to 

Flora, 
Peering  in.  April's  front. 

*  Pervigilium  Veneris. — ParnelCs  translation, 
+  But  meet,  but.^Qixssie;—But  smet-cui? 


THE  INDICATOR.  219 

There  is  a  line  in  one  of  his  sonnets,  which,  agreeably  to  the  image  he 
had  in  his  mind,  seems  to  strike  up  in  one's  face,  hot  and  odorouSj  like 
perfume  in  a  censer, 

Ifl  process  of  the  seasons  have  I  seen 

Three  April  perfumes  in  three  hot  Junes  burned. 

His  allusions  ta  spring  are  numerous  in  proportion.  We  all  know 
the  song,  containing  that  fine  line,  fresh  from  the  most  brilliant  of 
pallets  :-^ 

When  daisies  pied,  and  violets  blue, 
And  lady-smocks  all  silver  white, 
And  cuckott-biids  of  yellow  hue, 
Do  jpai^  the  meaiiows  with  deliglit. 

We  owe  a  long  debt  of  gratitude  to  the  daisy ;  and  we  take  this 
opportunity  of  discharging  amillionth  part  of  it.  If  we  undertook  to 
pay  it  all,  we  should  have  had  to  write  such  a  book,  as  is  never  very 
likely  to  be  written, — a  journal  of  numberless  happy  hours  in  child- 
hood, kept  with  the  feelings  of  an  infant  and  the  pen  of  a  man.  For 
it  would  take,  we  suspect,  a  depth  of  delight  and  a  subtlety  of  words, 
to  express  even  the  vague  joy  of  infancy,  such  as  our  learned  depar- 
tures from  natural  wisdom  would  find  it  more  difficult  to  put  together, 
than  criticism  and  comfort,  or  an  old  palate  and  a  young  relish. — 
But  knowledge  is  the  widening  and  the  brightening  road ,  that  must 
conduct  us  back  to  the  joys  from  which  it  led  us  ;  and  which  it  is  des- 
tined perhaps  to  secure  and  extend.  We  must  not  quarrel  with  it's 
asperities,  when  we  can  help. 

We  do  not  know  the  Greek  name  of  the  daisy,  nor  do  the  dictiona- 
ries inform  us ;  and  we  are  not  iat  present  in  the  way  of  consulting 
books  that  might.  We  always  like  to  see  what  the  Greeks  say  to 
these  things,  because  they  had  a  sentiment  in  their  enjoyments.  The 
Latins  called  it  Bellis  or  Bellus,  as  much  as  to  say,  Nice  One,  With 
the  French  and  Italians  it  has  the  same  name  as  a  Peapl, — Marguerite, 
Margarita,  or  generally,  by  way  of  endearment,  Marghe retina*.  The 
same  word  was  the  name  of  a  woman,  and  occasioned  infinite  inter- 
mixtures of  complin»ent  about  pearls,  daisies,  and  fair  ipistresses. 
Chaucer,  is  his  beautiful  poem  of  the  Flower  and  the  Leaf,  which  is 
evidently  imitated  fjrom  sonie  French  poetess,  says, 

And  at  th6  laste  there  began  anon 
I  A  lady  for  to  sing  right  womanly 

A  bargaret+  in  praising  the  daisie, 
For  as  me  thought  among  her  notes  sweet. 
She  said  "  Si  douset  est  la  Margarete." 

*'  The  Margaret  is  so  sweet."  Our  Margaret  however,  in  this  allego- 
rical poem,  is  undervalued  in  cornparison  with  the  laurel  •  yet  Chaucer 
perhaps  was  partly  induced  to  translate  it  on  occount  of  it's  making 
the  figure  that  it  dpes  ;  for  he  has  informed  us  more  than  once,  in  a 

*  This  word  is  originally  Greek,— Margariles;  and  as  the  Franks  probably 
brought  it  from  Constantinople,  perhaps  they  brought  it's  association  with  the  daisy 
also. 

t  Bargaret,  Bergeretle,  a  little  pastoral. 


220  THE  INDICATOR. 

very  particular  manner,  that  it  was  his  favourite  flower.  There  is  a 
very  interefetiog  passage  to  this  effect  in  his  Legend  of  Good  Women ; 
where  he  says,  that  nothing  but  the  daisied  fields  in  spring  could  take 
hiin  from  his  books. 

And  as  for  me,  though  that  I  can*  but  lite* 

On  hookas  for  to  read  I  me  delight, 

A»d  to  hem  give  I  faith  and  full  credence, 

And  in  my  heart  have  hem  in  reverence. 

So  heartily,  that  there  is  game  none. 

That  from  my  bookfei;  maketh  me.  to  gone, 

But  it  be  seldom,  on  the  holy  day ; 

Save  certainly,  when  that  the  month  of  May 

Is  comen,  and  that  I  liear  the  foules  sing. 

And  that  the  flowers  ginnen  for  to  spring, 

Farewell  my  booke,  and  my  devotion. 

Now  have  1  then  eke  tliis  condition. 

That,  of  all  the  flowers  in  the  mead,  ..  ^ 

Then  loVe  I  most  those  flowers  white  and  red, 

Sucli  that  men  callen  daisies  in  our  town. 

To  hem  I  have  so  great  afi^ection. 

As  I  said  erst,  when  comen  is  the  May, 

That  in  the  bed  there  dawetht  me  no  day, 

That  I  nam  up  and  walking  in'the  mead, 

To  seen  this  flower  agenst  the  sunne  spread, 

"When  it  upriseth  early  by  the  morrow, 

That  blissful  sight  softeneth  all  my  sorrow. 

So  glad  am  I,  when  that  I  have  presence 

Of  i(,  to  done  it  all  reverence. 

As  she  that  is  of  all  flowers  the  flower. 

He  says  that  he  finds  it  ever  new,  and  that  he  shall  love  it  till  hrs 
*'  heart  dies  :"  and  afterwards,  with  a  natural  picture  of  his  resting  pa 
the  grass, 

Adown  full  soflely  I  gan  to  sink. 

And  leaning  on  my  elbow  and  my  side. 

The  long  day  I  shope:};  me  for  to  abide    ~  - 

For  nothing  else,  and  I  shall  not  lie, 

But  for  to  look  upon  the  daisie. 

That  well  by  reason  men  it  call  may 

The  daisie,  or  else  the  eye  of  day. 

This  etymology,  which  we  have  no  doubt  is  the  real  one,  is  repeated 
by  Ben  Jonson,  who  takes  occasion  to  spell  the  word  days-eyes  5 
adding,  with  his  usual  tendency  to  overdo  a  matter  of  learning, 

Days-eyes,  and  the  lippes  of  cows ; 

videlicet,  cowslips :  which  is  a  disentanglement  of  cmnpounds,  in  the 
style  of  our  pleasant  parodists  : 

Puddings  of  the  plum. 

And  fingers  of  the  lady.  , 

Mr.  Wordsworth-  introduces  his  homage  to  the  daisy  with  a  passage 
from  George  Wither  ;  which  as  it  is  an  old  favourite  of  ours,  and  ex- 
tremely applicable  both  to  this  article  and  our  whole  work,  we  cannot 
deny  ourselves  the  pleasure  of  repeating.     It  is  the  more  interesting, 

*  Know  but  little.  t  Dawneth.  "    +  Shaped. 


THE  INDICATOR.  221 

inasmuch  as  it  was  written  in  prison,  where  the  freedom  of  his  opinions 
had  thrown  him*.     He  is  speaking  of  his  Muse,  or  Imagination. 

Her  divine  skill  taught  me  lliis; 
That  from  every  thing  I  saw 
I  could  some  instruction  draw, 
And  raise  pleasure  to  the  height 
From  the  meanest  object's  sight. 
By  the  murmur  of  a  spring,  .       - 

Or  the  least  bough's  rustelling; 
By  a  daisy,  whose  leaves  spread 
Shut,  when  Titan  goes  to  bed; 
Or  a  shady  bush  or  tree  ; 
She  could  more  infuse  in  me, 
Than  all  Nature's  beauties  cua 
/  In  some  other  wiser  man. 

Mr.  Wordsworth  undertakes  to  patronize  the  Celandine,  because  no- 
body else  will  notice  it:  which  is  a  good  reason.  But  though  he  tells 
us,  in  a  startling  piece  of  information,  that 

Poets,  vain  men  in  their  mood  I 
Travel  with  the  multitude, 

yet  he  falls  in  with  his  old  brethren  of  England  and  Normandy,  and 
becomes  loyal  to  the  daisy. 

Be  violets  in  their  secret  mews 

The  flowers  the  wanton  Zephyrs  chuse; 

Proud  be  the  rose,  witii  rains  and  dews 

Her  head  impearling; 
Thou  liv'st  with  less  ambitious  aim. 
Yet  hast  not  gone  without  thy  fame; 
Thou  art  indeed,  by  many  a  elaifn, 

The  poet's  darling. 

♦         **»**** 
A  nun  demure,  of  lowly  port ; 
Or  sprightly  maiden  of  Love's  court, 
In  thy  simplicity  the  sport 

Of  all  temptations; 
A  fjueen  in  crown  of  rubies  drest; 
A  starveling  in  a  scanty  vest; 
Are  all,  as  seem  to  suit  thee  best, 

Thy  appellations. 

A  little  Cyclops,  with  one  eye 

Staring  to  threaten  or  defy. 

That  thought  comes  next,  and  instantly 

The  freak  is  over; 
The. freak  will  vanish,  and  behold  ! 
A  silver  shield  with  boss  of  gold. 
That  spreads  itself,  some  fairy  bold 

In  fight  to  cover. 

I  see  thee  glittering  from  afar; 
And  then  thou  art  a  pretty  star, 
Not  quite  so  fair  as  many  are 
In  heaven  above  thee  ! 

*  It  is  not  generally  known,  that  Cliaucer  was  four  years  in  prison,  in  his  old 
Bj;e,  on  the  same  account.  He  was  a  Wicklifiite, — one  of  the  precursors  of  the 
Reformation.     His  prison,  doublles:;,  was  no  dimiuishtr  of  his  love  of  the  daii-y. 


222  THE  INDICATOR. 

Yet  like  a  star,  with  glittering  crest, 
Self-poised  in  air,  thou  seem'st  to  rest; — 
May  peace  come  never  to  his  nest. 
Who  shall  reprove  thee. 

Sweet  flower !  for  by  that  name  at  last. 
When  all  my  reveries  are  past, 
I  call  thee,  and  to  that  cleave  fast  ; 

Sweet  silent  creature ; 
That  breath'st  witli  me  in  sun  and  air, 
I  Do  thou,  as  tliou  art  wont,  repair 

My  heart  with  gladness,  and  a  share 

Of  thy  meek  nature. 

Mr.  Wordsworth  calls  the  daisy  "  an  unassuming  common-place  of 
Nature,"  which  it  is;  and  he  praises  it  very  becomingly  for  dis- 
charging it's  duties  so  chearfully,  in  that  universal  character.  But  we 
cannot  agree  with  him  in  thinking  that  it  has  a  "  homely  face.*'  Not 
that  we  should  care,  if  it  really  had ;  for  homeliness  does  not  make 
ugliness  ;  but  we  appeal  to  every  body,  whether  it  is  proper  to  say 
this  of  la  belle  Marguerite.  In  the  first  place,  it's  shape  is  very  pretty 
and  slender,  but  not  too  much  so.  Then  it  has  a  boss  of  gold,  set 
round  and  irradiated  with  silver  points.  It's  yellow  and  fair  white  are 
in  so  high  a  taste  of  contrast,  that  Spenser  has  chosen  the  same  colours 
for  a  picture  of  Leda  reposing  :— 

Oh  wondrous  skill  and  sweet  wit  of  the  niaH  ! 

That  her  in  daffodillies  sleeping  laid. 

From  scorching  heat  her  dainty  limbs  to  shade. 

It  is  for  the  same  reason,  that  the  daisy,  being  chiefly  white,  makes 
such  a  beautiful  shew  in  company  with  the  butter  cup.  But  this  is 
not  all ;  for  look  at  the  back,  and  you  find  it's  fair  petals  blushing 
with  a  most  delightful  red.  And  how  compactly  and  delicately  is  the 
neck  set  in  green  !  Bejle  et  douce  Marguerite,  aimable  soeur  du  roi 
Kingcup,  we  would  tilt  for  thee  with  a  hundred  pens,  against  the 
stoutest  poet  that  did  not  find  perfection  in  thy  cheek. 

But  here  somebody  may  remind  us  of  the  spring  showers,  and  what 
drawbacks  they  are  upon  going  into  the  fields. — Not  at  all  so,  when 
the  spring  is  really  confirmed,  and  the  showers  but  April-like  and  at 
intervals.  Let  us  turn  our  imaginations  to  the  bright  side  of  spring, 
and  we  shall  forget  the  showers.  You  see  they  have  been  forgotten 
just  this  moment.  Besides,  we  are  not  likely  to  stray  too  far  into  the 
fields  ;  and  if  we  should,  are  there  not  hats,  bonnets,  barns,  cottages, 
elm-trees,  and  good  wills  ?  We  may  make  these  things  zests,  if  w-e 
please,  instead  of  drawbacks.  There  is  a  pleasant,  off'-hand,  pic- 
turesque little  poem,  full  of  sprightly  simplicity,  written  by  Franco 
SacchettI,  the  earliest  follower  of  Boccaccio ;  which  will  shew  us,  that 
the  Italians  are  not  prevented  from  gathering  flowers  by  the  fear  of 
rain,  nor  even  of  snakes.     Eccolo,  * 

*  With  respect  to  giving  the  originals  of  what  we  translate,  we  are  guided  by 
this  principle: — if  they  are  easily  referred   to,  we  shall   always  content  ourselves  « 
with  short  extracts,  unless  hurried  away  by  the  enthusiasm  of  the  moment,  or  for 
some  other  special  reason ;  if  ihcy  are  not  so  readily  to  be  found,  it  will  add  a  value 


THE  INDICATOR.  223 


GATHERING  FLOWERS. 

Passando  con  pensier  per  iin  boschetto, 
Donne  per  quello  givan  fior  cogliendo,  ^ 

Con  diletto,  co'  quel,  co'  quel  diceudo, 
Eccolo,  eceol ;  che  ?  e  fiordaliso. 
Va  la  per  le  viole; 
Piu  coick  per  le  rose,  cole,  cole 
Vaghe  amorose. 
O  me,  die  'I  prun  mi  pungc. 
Quell'  altra,  me  v'  a^giunge. 
U',  u,  o,  ch'  6  quel  che  salta  ? 
Un  grillo,  un  grillo. 
Venite  qua,  correte, 
Ramponzoli  cogliete: 
E'  non  son'  essi. 
Si,  son:  coleiocolei 

Vien  qua,  vien  qua  per  funglii,  un  micolino, 
Piu  com,  pin  col^,  per  sermollino. 
Noi  starem  troppo,  che  '1  tempo  si  turba; 
Ve'  eiie  balena  e  tuona, 
E  m'  indovino  die  vesper®  suona. 
Paurosa  !  non  &  egli  ancor  nona ; 
E  vedi  ed  odi  1'  usignuol  che  canta, 
Piu  bel  ve',  piu  bel  ve'. 

lo  sento  e  nc-'i  soche;  - 

E  dov'  &,  e  dov'  e  ?  ~ 

In  quel  cespuglio. 

Ognuna  qui  piccliia,  tocca,  e  ritocca: 
Mentre  lo  busso  cresce, 
Una  gran  serpe  n'  esce. 
Ometrista!  omelassa!  o  me  !  o  me! 
Gridan  fuggendo  di  paura  piene, 
Ed  ecco  che  una  folta  pioggia  viene. 
Timidetta  quell'  una  e  I'altra  urtando, 
Stridendo,  la  divanza,  via  fuggendo, 
E  gri,dando,  qual  sdrucciola,  qual  cade. 
Per  caso  Tuoa  appone  lo  ginecchio 
La  ve  seggea  lo  frettoloso  piede, 
E  la  mano  e  le  veste : 
'     Quella  di  fango  lorda  ne  diviene, 
Quelladi  piu  calpeste: 

to  oor  little  work  to  lay  them  before  the  reader.  A  volume  of  the  Indicaior  will 
thus  contain  some  of  the  best  morsels  of  literature.  In  the  Parnaso  Italjano,  it  i» 
doubted  whether  the  present  poem  is  to  be  assigned  to  Franco  Sacchetti,  or  to 
Ugolin  Ubaldini,  who  according  to  the  editor  is  the  same  as  the  Ubaldin  de  la  Pila 
mentioned  among  the  gluttons  iti  the  24th  Book  of  Dante's  Purgatory.  If  so,  he 
was  not  so  likely  to  forget  himself  among  the  fields,  as  Sacchetti;  but  whether  he 
be  the  same  person  or  not,  the  poem  answers  so  well  to  the  lalter's  character,  that 
it  was  most  probably  his  production^.  He  is  another  instance,  to  be  added  to  some 
of  the  most  illustrious  names,  of  the  triumph  of  a  genial  imagination,  and  a  rich  in- 
difference to  riches,  over  a  life  of  business,  politics,  and  eveu  honours.  Franco 
Sacchetti,  a  Florentine,  says  Mr.  Dunlop,  (History  of  Fiction,  Vol.  2.  p.  ^&.)  "^  was 
born  in  1335,  and  died  about  the  year  1410.  He  was  a  poet  in  his  youth,  and  tra- 
velled lo  Sclavonia  and  other  countries,  to  attend  to  some  mercantile  concerns.  As 
he  advanced  in  years,  he  was  raised  to  a  distinguished  raak  in  the  Magistracy  of 
Florence  j  he  became  podesta  of  Faenza  and  other  pVaces,  and  at  length  governor  of 
a  Florentine  pro/ince  in  the  Romagna.  Notwithstanding  his  honours  he  lived  and 
died  poor,  but  is  said  to  have  been  a  g^ood-humoured  facetious  man.  He  left  an 
immense  collection  of  sonnets  and  canzone,  some  of  which  have  been  lost,  and 
others  are  slill  in  M.S." — We  should  be  exceedingly  gratified  by  tlte  ^ght  of  any  of 
hirs  poeias  that  may  happen  to  be  in  print* 


224  TilE  INDICATOR. 

Cio  cl»'  an  colto  ir  si  lassa, 
Ne  pui  s'  apprtfzza,  e  per  bosco  si  spande, 
l)e'  fiori  a  terra  vanno  le  ghirlande, 
Ne  si  sdimeite  pure  unquanto  il  corso. 
In  cotal  fuga  a  repelule  note 
Tieosi  beata,  cbi  )>iu  correr  puote. 
Si  fiso  stetti  il  di  cl>'  To  le  niirai, 
Cli'  io  non  m'  avvidi,  e  tutto  mi  bagnai. 

Walking  and  musing  "in  a  wood,  I  saw 
Some  ladies  "latiiering  flowers,  now  this,  now  t'oti.er. 
And  crying  in  delight  to  one  another, 
"  Look  here,  look  here :  what's  this  ?  a  fleur-de-lis. 
Oh — get  some  violets  there: 
No,  no,  some  roses  farther  onward  there: 
How  beautiful  they  are! 
Orae!  tiiese  thorns  do  prick  80 — only  see: — 
.    Not  that;  the  other;  reach  it  me. 
Hallo,  hallo!  What  is  il  leaping  so? 
A  grasshopper,  a  j^jrasshopper.    ' 
Come  here,  come  here  now,  quickly. 
The  rampions  grew  so  thickly; 
No;  they're  not  I'ampions.  v 

Yes,  they  are : — Ann^,  Beatrice,  or  Lisa, 
Come  tiere,  come  here  for  mushrooms    just  a  bit    ; 
Tliere,  there's  the  betony — you're  threading  it. 
We  shall  be  caught,  the  weather's  going  to  change? 
See,  see;  it  lightens — hush — and  there's  the  thunder. 
Was  that  tlie  bell  for  vespers  too,  I  wonder? 
Why,  yon  faint-hearted  tiling,  it  isn't  noon  i 
It  was  the  nigluiiigale — liinow  his  tune — 
There's  something  atirriiig  tEere  I 
Where,  where? 
There,  in  the  bushes." 

Here  every  lady  ppkes,  and  peeps,  and  pushes  } 
When  suddenly,  in  middle  of  the  rout, 
A  great  large  snake  comes  out. 

"  O  lord !  O  lord  I  Good  heavens !  O  me !  O  mel"     • 
And  off  they  go,  scampering  with  all  their  power. 
While  from  above,  down  comes  a  pelting  shower. 

Frightened,  and  serarpblihg,  jolting  one  another. 
They  shriek,  they  run,  they  slide  :^  the  foot  of  one 
Catches  her  gown,  aiid  where  the  foot  should  be 
Dovyn  goes  the  kn«e,  ..- 

And  hands,  and  clothes^ and  all;  some  stumble  OH, 
Brushing  the  hard  eariji  off,  and  some  the  mud. 
What  they  plucked,  so  glad  and  heaping, 
Now  becomes  not  worth  their  keeping. 
Off.it  squirrs,  leaf,  root,  and  flower; 
Yet  not  the  less  for  that  they  scream  and  scower,  , 
In  such  a  passage,  happiest  she 
-  '    :    '■-;    :•  ...Whoplies  her  notes  most  rapidly. 

.'I  So  fixed  I  stood,  gazing  at  that  fair  set, 

That  I  forgot.l.hesl)o\ver>  and  dripped  with  wet. 


Orders  received  by  tlie  Kewsmeiij  by  the, Booksellers,  and  by  the  Publisher,  Joseph  Appleyafd, 
.  Printed  by  Joseph  /^jjpleyard,  No,  19,  Catherine-street,  $trand,— — J*iif  e  9d, 


THE    INDICATOR. 


There  he  arriving  round  about  doth  flie, 
And  takes  survey  with  busie  curious  eve : 
Now  this,  now  that,  he  taateth  teuder!y. 

SpGNseiU 


No.  XXIX.—WEDNESDAY,  APRIL  26th,   1820. 


MAY-DAY. 


On  Monday  next  Is  May-Morning ; — a  word,  which  used  to  awaken 
in  the  minds  of  our  ancestors  all  the  ideas  of  youth,  and  verdure,  and 
blossoming,  and  love,  aiid  hilarity  ;  in  short,  the  union  of  the  two  besfc 
things  in  the  world,  the  love  of  nature,  alid  the  love  of  each  other.  It 
was  the  day,  on  which  the  arrival  of  the  year  at  maturity  was  kept, 
like  that  of  a  blooming  heiress.  They  caught  her  eye  as  she  was 
coming,  and  sent  up  hundreds  of  songs  of  joy. 

Now  the  brijrlit  Morning-Slar,  Day's  Iiarbinger, 
Comes  dancing  from  the  east,  and  leads  with  her 
The  flowery  May,  wlio  from  her  green  lap  throws 
The  yellow  cowslip,  and  the  pale  primrose. 
Hail,  bounteous  May,, that  dost  inspire 
Mirth,  and  youth,  and  warm  desire: 
Woods  and  groves  are  of  thy  dressing; 
Hill,  and  dale,  doth  boast  thy  blessing. 
Thus  we  salute  thee  with  our  early  song, 
And  welcome  thee,  and  wish  thee  long. 

These  songs  were  stopped  by  Milton's  own  friends  the  Puritans,  whom 
in  his  old  age  he  again  differed  with,  most  likely  on  these  very  points 
among  others.  But  till  then,  they  appear  to'have  been  as  old,  all  over 
Europe,  as  the  existence  of  society.  The  Druids  are  said  to  have  had 
festivals  in  honour  of  May.  Our  Teutonic  ancestors  had  undoubtedly  ; 
and  in  the  countries  which  had  constituted  the  Western  Roman  Em- 
pire, Flora  still  saw  thanks  paid  for  her  flowers,  though  her  worship 
had  gone  away*. 

*  The  great  May  holiday  abserved  over  t!ie  West  of  Europe  was  known  forccH- 
turies,  up  to  a  late  period,  under  the  name  of  the  Beltein  or  Beltane.  .  Such  a  num- 
ber of  etymologies,  all  perplexingly  probable,  have  been  found  for  this  word,  that 
we  have  been  surprised  to  miss  among  them  that  of  Bel-temps,  the  Fine  Time  or 
Season.    Thus  Printemps,  the  First  Time  or  Prime  Season,  is  the  Spring. 


226  THE  INDICATOR. 

The  homage,  which  was  paid  to  the  IMonth  of  Love  and  Flowers, 
may  be  divided  into  two  sorts,  the  general  and  the  individual.  The 
first  consisted  in  going  with  others  to  gather  May,  and  in  joining  in 
sports  and  games  afterwards.  On  the  first  of  the  month,  "  the  juvenile 
part  of  both  sexes,"  says  Bourne,  in  his  Popular  Antiquities,  *'  were 
wont  to  rise  a  little  after  midnight  and  walk  to  some  neighbouring 
wood,  where  they  broke  down  branches  from  the  trees,  and  adorned 
them  with  nosegays  and  crowns  of  flowers.  When  this  was  done, 
they  returned  with  their  booty  about  the  rising  of  the  sun,  and  made 
their  doors  and  windows  to  triumph  in  the  flowery  spoil.  The  after 
part  of  the  day  was  chiefly  spent  in  dancing  round  a  May-pole,  which 
being  placed  in  a  convenient  part  of  the  village,  stood  there,  as  it 
were,  consecrated  to  the  Goddess  of  Flowers  without  the  least  viola- 
tion offered  to  it,  in  the  whole  circle  of  the  year."  Spenser,  in  his 
Shepheard's  Calendar,  has  detailed  the  circumstances,  in  a  style  like  a 
rustic  dance. 

Young  Police  now  flacken  in — every  where 
To  gather  May-buskeis* — and  smelling  brere; 
And  home  they  hasten — the  posies  to  dight, 
And  all  thekirk-pillours — eare  day-light, 
With  hawthorne  buds — and  sweet  eglantine, 
And  girlonds  of  roses — and  soppes  in  wine. 
******** 

\  Sicker  this  morowe,  no  longer  agoe, 

1  saw  a  shole  of  shepherds  oulgoe 
"With  singing,  and  shouting,  and  jolly  chere; 
Before  them  yode+  a  iustie  tabrere^j:, 
That  to  the  many  a  hornpipe  played. 
Whereto  they  dauncen  eche  one  with  his  mayd. 
To  see  these  folks  make  such  jovisaunce, 
Made  my  heart'after  the  pipe  to  dauncc. 
Tho§  to  the  greene  wood  they  speeden  hem  all, 
^        To  fetchen  Iiome  May  with  their  musicall. 
And  home  they  bringen,  in  a  royall  throne. 
Crowned  as  king;  and  his  queen  attonejl 
Was  Lady  Flora,  on  whom  did  attend 
A  fayre  flocke  of  faeries,  and  a  fresh  bend 
Of  lovely  nymphs.     O  that  I  were  there 
To  helpen  the  ladies  their  May«bush  beare. 

The  day  was  past  in  sociality  and  manly  sports  ;■ — in  archery,  and 
running,  and  pitching  the  bar,— in  dancing,  singing,  playing  music, 
acting  Robin  Hood  and  his  company,  and  making  a  well-earned  feast 
upon  all  the  country-dainties  in  season.  It  closed  with  an  award  of 
prizes. 

As  r  have  seen  the  Lady  of  the  May, 
^  Set  in  an  arbour  (on  a  holyday) 

Built  by  the  Maypole,  where  the  jocund  swains 
Dance  with  the  maidens  to  the  bag-pipe's  strains. 
When  envious  night  commands  them  to  be  gone, 
;  Call  for  the  merry  youngsters  one  by  one, 

*  BMs/ce/s—BosJte^s— Bushes— from  Boschetii,  Hal  +  Vode,  Went. 

J  Tabnre,  a  Tabourer.  ^  Tho,  Then.  H  Altone,  At  once— With  him. 


THE  INDICATOR.  227 

And  for  their  well  performance  soon  disposes, 

To  lliis  a  garland  interwove  with  roses,  ^,  / 

To  that  a  carved  hook,  or  well-wrought  scrip, 

Gracing  another  with  her  cherry  lip ; 

To  one  her  garter,  to  another  then 

A  handkerchief  cast  o'er  and  o'er  again; 

And  none  returneth  empty,  that  liath  spent 

His  pains  to  fill  their  rural  merriment.*. 

Among  the  gentry  and  at  court  the  spirit  of  the  same  enjoyments 
took  place,  modified  according  to  the  taste  or  rank  of  the  entertainers. 
The  most  universal  amusement,  agreeably  to  the  general  current  in  the 
veins  and  the  common  participation  of  flesh  and  blood  (for  rank  knows 
i30  distinction  of  legs  and  knee-pans),  was  dancing.  Contests  of  chi- 
valry supplied  the  place  of  more  rural  gymnastics.  But  the  most 
poetical  and  elaborate  entertainment  was  the  Mask.  A  certain  flowery- 
grace  was  sprinkled  over  all ;  and  the  finest  spirits  of  the  time  thought 
they  shewed  both  their  manliness  and  wisdom,  in  knowing  how  to  raise 
the  pleasures  of  the  season  to  their  height.  Sir  Philip  Sydney,  th« 
idea  of  whom  has  come  down  to  us  as  a  personification  of  all  the  refine* 
aient  of  that  age, — is  fondly  recollected  by  Spenser  in  this  character, 

His  sports  were  faire,  bis  joyance  innocent, 
Sweet  without  soure,  and  honey  without  gall ; 
And  he  himself  seemed  made  for  merriment. 
Merrily  masking  both  in  bowre  and  hall. 
There  was  no  pleasure  nor  delightful  1  play, 
When  Astrophel  soever  was  away. 

For  he  could  pipe,  and  daunce,  and  caroll  sweef. 
Amongst  the  sliepheards  in  their  shearing  feast ;  ^ 

As  somer's  larke  that  with  her  song  dotli  greet 
The  dawning  day  foith  comming  from  the  East. 
And  layes  of  love  he  also  could  compose: 
Thrise  happie  she,  whom  he  to  praise  did  choose. 

Astrophel,  St.  St.  '     :  ; 

Individual  homage  to  the  month  of  May  consisted  in  paying  rcspeet 
to  it  though  alone,  and  in  plucking  flowers  and  flowering  boughs  to 
adorn  apartments  with. 

This  maiden,  in  a  morn  betime. 

Went  forth  when  May  was  in  the  prime 

To  get  sweet  setywall, 
The  honey-snckle,  the  harlock. 
The  lily,  and  the  lady-smock, 

To  deck  her  summer-hall. 

Drayton's  PastoraTs,  Ejchg.  4. 


*  Britannia  s  Pastorals,  by  William  Browne.  Song  the  4th.  Browne,  like  his 
friend  Wither,  from  whom  we  quoted  a  passage  last  week,  .wanted  strength  and 
the  power  of  selection  ;  though  not  to  such  an  extent.  He  is  however  well  worth 
reading  by  those  who  can  expatiate  over  a  pastoral  subject,  like  a  meadowy  tract 
of  country;  finding  out  the  beautiful  spots;  and  gratified,  if  not  mych  delighted, 
with  the  rest.  His  genius,  which  was  by  no  means  destitute  of  the  social  part  of 
passion,  seehis  to  have  been  turned  almost  wholly  to  description  by  the  beauties  of 
his  native  county  Devoushirc 


228  ffHE.  INDICATOR. 

But  when  morning  pleasures  are  to  be  spoken  of,  the  lovers  of  poetry 
who  do  not  know  Chaucer,  are  like  those  who  do  not  know  what  it  is 
to  be  up  in  the  morning.  He  has  left  us  two  exquisite  pictures  of  the 
solitary  observance  of  May,  in  his  Palamon  and  Arcite.  They  are  the 
more  curious  inasmuch  as  the  actor  in  one  is  a  lady,  and  in  the  other 
a  knight.  How  far  they  owe  any  of  their  beauty  to  his  original,  the 
Theseide  of  Boccaccio,  we  canndt  say  ;  for  we  never  had  the  happi- 
ness of  meeting  with  that  very  rare  work.  The  Italians  have  so 
neglected  it,  that  they  have  not  only  never  given  it  a  rifacimento  or 
re-modelling,  as  in  the  instance  of  Boiardo's  poem,  but  are  almost  as 
much  unacquainted  with  it,  we  believe,  as  foreign  countries.  Chaucer 
thought  it  worth  his  while  to  be  both  acquainted  with  it,  and  to  make 
others  so;  and  we  may  venture,  to  say,  that  we  know  of  no  Italian 
after  Boccaccio's  age  who  was  so  likely  to  understand  him  to  the  core, 
as  his  English  admirer,  Ariosto  not  excepted.  Still,  from  what  we 
have  seen  of  Boccaccio's  poetry,  we  can  imagine  the  Theseide  to  have 
been  too  lax  and  long.  If  Chaucer's  Palamon 'and  Arcite  be  all  that 
he  thought  proper  to  distil  from  it,  it  must  have  been  greatly  so  ;  for 
it  was  a  large  epic.  But  at  all  events  the  essence  is  a|i  exquisite  one. 
The  tree  must  have  been  a  fine  old  enormity,  from  which  such  a  honey 
could  be  drawn. 

To  begin,  as  in  duty  bound,  with  the  lady.  How  she  sparkles 
through  the  antiquity  of  the  language,  like  a  young  beauty  in  an  old 
hood! 

/     Thus  passeth  yere  by  yere,  and  day  by  day 
Till  it  felle  ones  in  a  morowe  of  May, 
ThatEmelie— 

But  we  will  alter  the  spelling  where  we  can,  as  in  a  former  instance, 
merely  to  let  the  reader  see  what  a  notion  is  in  his  way,  if  he  suft'trs 
the  look  of  Chaucer's  words  to  prevent  his  enjoying  him. 

^  .  /      .  . 

Thus  passeth  year  by  year,  and  day  by  day, 
Till  it  fell  once,  in  a  morrow  of  May, 
That  Emily,  that  fairer  was  to  eeen 

Than  is  the  lily  upon  his  stalk  green,  __    , 

And  fresher  than  the  May  with  flowers  new, 
(For  with  tlie  rosy  colour  strove  her  hue ; 
I  n'ot  which  was  the  finer  of  them  two) 
Ere  it  was  day,  as  she  was  wont  to  do, 
She  was  arisen  and  all  ready  dight. 
For  May  will  have  no  sluggardy  a-night: 
The  season  pricketh  every  gentle  hrarf, 
'  And  maketh  him  out  of  his  sleep  to  start, 

And  saith  "Arise,  and  do  thine  observance." 
This  mafveth  Emily  have  remembrance 
,  To  do  honour  to  May,  and  for  to  rise. 

Yclothed  was  she,  fresh  for  to  devise: 
Her  yellow  hair  was  braided  in  a  tress. 
Behind  her  back,  a  yarde*  long  I  guess : 
And  in  the  garden,  at  the  sun  uprist. 
She  walketh  up  and  down,  where  ub  her  Iii>t; 

*  These  additional  syllables  are  to  be  jiead  slightly,  like  the  e  in  French  verse^ 


THE  INDICATOR.  229 

She  gatlierelli  flowers,  party  wliite  and  red, 
To  make  a  subtle  garland  for  her  head; 
And  as  an  angel,  heavenly  she  sung. 
The  great  towe'r,  that  was  so  thick  and  strong, 
Which  of  the  castle  was  the  chief  dongeoii, 
(Where  as  these  knightes  weren  in  prison, 
Of  which  I  tolde  you,  and  tellen  shall) 
Was  even  joinnnt  to  the  garden  wall, 
There  as  this  Emily  had  her  playing. 

Bright  was  the  sun,  and  clear  that  morw^ning — 

[How  finely,  to  our  ears  at  least,  the  second  line  of  the  couplet  always 
rises  up  from  this  full  stop  at  the  first !] 

Bright  was  the  sun,  and  clear  that  morwening. 
And  Palamon,  this  woeful  prisoner, 
As  was  his  wont,  by  leave  of  his  jailer, 
Was  risen,  and  roamed  in  a  chamber  on  high, 
In  which  he  all  the  noble  city  sigh*,  ( 

And  eke  the  garden,  full  of  branches  green, 
There  as  this  fresh  Emilia  the  sheen+ 
Was  in  her  walk,  and  roamed  up  and  down. 

Sir  Walter  Scott  in  his  edition  of  Dry  den  says  upon  the  passage 
before  us,  and  Dryden's  version  of  it,  that  *'  the  modern  must  yield 
the  palm  to  the  ancient,  in  spite  of  the  beauty  of  his  rersifica- 
tidn."  We  quote  from  memory ;  but  this  is  the  substance  of  his 
words.  ,  For  our  parts,  we  quite  agree  with  them,  as  to  the  consign- 
ment of  the  palm,  but  not  as  to  the  exception  about  the  versification. 
With  some  allowance  as  to  our  present  mode  of  accentuation,  it  appears 
to  us  to  be  touched  with  a  finer  sense  of  music  even  than  Dryden's. 
It  is  more  delicate,  without  any  inferiority  in  strength  ;  and  still  more 
various.  At  the  same  time,  we  do  not  quote  Sir  Walter  for  the 
purpose  of  differing  with  him.  We  would  only  shew  the  more 
fashionable  part  of  our  readers,  what  their  favourite  writer  thinks 
of  Chaucer ;  and  we  would  also  take  another  opportunity  of  contrast- 
ing some  opinions  of  ours,  exaggerated  by  party  feeling  and  a  young 
thoughtles'sness,  when  Sir  Walter  wrote  nothing  but  criticism  and 
poetry,  with  our  sense  of  his  extraordinary  merits  as  a  novelist.  But 
more  of  these  in  another  place.  Of  politics  also  we  say  nothing  here. 
There  ought  to  be  some  places  in  the  world  of  letters,  where  men*s 
thoughts  of  each  other,  like  the  knights  of  old,  may 

In  weeds  of  pegce  high  triumphs  hold. 

But  now  to  our  other  portrait.  It  is  as  sparkling  with  young  man- 
hood, as  the  former  is  with  a  gentler  freshness.  What  a  burst  of 
radiant  joy  is  in  the  second  couplet:  what  a  vital  quickness  in  the 
comparison  of  the  horse,  "  starting  as  the  fire  ;''  and  what  a  native 
and  happy  ease  in  the  conclusion  ! 


fcjaw.  t  Tiieiihiuing. 


gSO  THE  INDICATOR. 

Tlie  busy  lark,  the  messenger  of  day, 
Saleweth*  in  her  song  the  morrow  gray; 
And  fiery  Phoebus  riseth  up  so  bright. 
That  all  the  orient  laugheth  of  the  sight ; 
Ai>d  with  his  stremes  drieth  in  the  greves  f 
The  silver  droppds  hanging  in  the  leaves; 
And  Arcite,  that  is  iw  the  court  real  J 
■yVitii  Theseus  the  squier  principal. 
Is  risen,  and  looketh  on  the  merry  day; 
And  for  to  do  iiis  observance  to  May, 
Remembring  on  the  point  of  his  desire. 
He  on  the  courser,  starting  as  the  fire. 
Is  ridden  to  the  fieldes  him  to  play, 
Out  of  the  Court,  were  it  a  mile  ortway: 
And  to  the  grove,  of  which  that  I  you  teld. 
By  ^venture  his  way  he  gan  to  hold. 
To  maken  hem  a  garland  of  the  greves, 
Were  it  of  woodbind  or  of  hawthorn  leaves. 
And  loud  he  sung  against  the  sunny  sheen : 
"  O  May,  with  all  thy  flowers  and  thy  green. 
Right  welcome  be  thou,  fair^  freslie  May: 
I  hope  that  I  some  green  here  gettea  may." 
And  from  his  courser,  with  a  lusty  heart, 
Into  the  grove  full  hastily  he  start. 
And  in  a  path  he  roamed  up  and  down. 

The  versification  of  this  is  not  so  striking  as  the  other,  but  Dryden 
again  falls  short  iu  the  freshness  and  feeling  of  the  sentiment.  His 
lines  are  beautiful ;  but  tUcy  do  not  come  home  to  us  with  so  happy  and 
cordial  a  face.  Here  they  are.  The  word  morning  in  the  first  line,  as 
it  is  repeated  in  the  second,  we  are  bound  to  consider  as  a  slip  of  the 
pen ;  perhaps  for  mounting. 

Tlie  morning-lark,  the  messenger  of  day, 

Saluteth  in  her  song  the  morning  gray ; 

And  soon  the  sun  arose  with  beams  so  bright, 

That  all  the  horizon  laughed  to  see  the  joyous  sight: 

He  witii  his  tepid  rays  the  rose  renews, 

And  licks  the  drooping  leaves,  and  dries  the  dews; 

When  Arcite  left  his  bed,  resolv'd  to  pay 

Observance  to  the  month  of  merry  May: 

Forth  on  his  fiery  steed  betimes  he  rode. 

That  scarcely  prints  ihe  turf  on  which  he  trod; 

At  ease  he  seemed,  and  prancing  o^er  the  plains, 

Turned  only  to  the  grove  his  horses'  rein.=, 

'J"he  grove  1  named  before;  and,  ligitted  there, 

A  woodbine  garlaad  sought  to  crown  his  hair; 

Then  turned  his  face  against  tlie  rising  day. 

And  raised  his  voice  to  welcome  in  the  May  : 

"  For  thee,  sweet  monlii,  the  groves  green  liveries  wear. 

If  not  the  first,  the  fairest  of  the  year  : 

For  thee  the  Graces  lead  the  dancing  Hours, 

And  Nature's  leady  pencil  paints  the  flowers  : 

When  tliy  short  reign  is  past,  the  feverish  Sim 

The  sultry  tropic  fears,  and  moves  more  slowly  on. 

So  may  thy  tender  blossoms ifear  no  blight, 

Nor  goats  with  veuom'd  teeth, thy  tendrils  bite, 

♦  SaUtelb.  +  Groves.  :f  Royal, 


THE  mDICATOR.  231 

As  lliou  slialt  guide  my  wandering  stepps  to  And 
The  fragrant  greens  1  seek,  my  brows  to  bind." 
His  vows  address'd,  within  the  grove  he  stray'd. 

How  poor  is  this  to  Arcite's  leaping  from  his  courser  "  with  a  lusty 
heart."  How  inferior  the  common-place  of  the  *'  fiery  steed,"  which 
need  not  involve  any  actual  notion  in  the  writer's  mind,  to  the  courser 
*'  starting  as  the  fire ;" — how  inferior  the  turning  his  face  to  "  the 
rising  day"  and  "  raising  his  voice,"  to  the  singing  "  loud  against  the 
sunny  sheen ;"  and  lastly,  the  whole  learned  invocation  and  adjuration 
of  May,  about  guiding  his  *'  wandering  steps"  and  "  so  may  thy 
tender  blossoms"  &c.  to  the  call  upon  the  fair  ffesh  May,  ending  with 
that  simple,  quick-hearted  line,  in  which  he  hopes  he  shall  get  ''  some 
green  here ;"  a  touclfin  the  happiest  taste  of  the  Italian  vivacity. 
Dryden's  genius,  for  the  most  part,  wanted  faith  in  nature.  It  was 
too  gross  and  sophisticate.  There  was  as  much  difi'erence  between 
him  and  his  original,  as  between  a  hot  noon  in  perukes  at  St.  James's, 
and  one  of  Chaucer's  lounges  on  the  grass,  of  a  May-morning. 

All  this  worship  of  May  is  over  now.  There  is  no  issuing  forth,  in- 
glad  companies  to  gather  boughs  ;  no  adorning  of  houses  with  "  the 
flowery  spoil ;"  no  songs,  no  dances,  no  village  sports  and  coronations, 
no  courtly  poetries,  no  sense  and  acknowledgment  of  the  quiet  pre- 
sence of  nature,  in  grove  or  glade. 

O  dolce  primavera,  o  fior  novelli, 

O  aura  o  arboscelli  o  fresche  erbette, 

O  piagge  benedelle,  o  colli  o  monti, 

Ovalli  o  fiumi  o  fonti  o  verde  rivi, 

Palme  lauri  ed  olive,  edere  e  mirti; 

O  gloriosi  spirti  de  gli  boschi ; 

O  Eco,  o  antri  foschi  o  cliiare  linfe, 

O  faretrate  ninfe  o  agresli  Pani, 

O  Satiri  e  Silvani,  o  Fauni  e  Driadi, 

Naiadi  ed  Amadriadi,  o  Semidee,  i 

Oreadi  e  Napee, — orsietesole. 

Sannazzaro. 

O  tliou  delicious  spring,  O  ye  new  flowers, 

O  airs,  O  youngling  bowers;  fresli  thickening  grass. 

And  plains  beneath  heaven's  face  ;  O  hills  and  mountains, 

Vailies,  and  streams,  and  fountains;  banks  of  green, 

Myrtles,  and  palms  serene,  ivies,  and  bays ; 

And  ye  who  warmed  old  fays,  spirits  o'the  woods, 

Echoes,  and  solitudes,  and  lakes  of  light;     ' 

O  quivered  virgins  bright.  Pans  rustical. 

Satyrs  and  Sylvans  all.  Dryads,  and  ye 

That  up  the  mountains  be ;  and  ye  beneath 

In  meadow  or  flowery  heath, — ye  are  alone. 

This  time  two  hundred  years  ago,  our  ancestors  were  all  anticipating 
their  May  holidays.  Bigotry  came  in,  and  frowned  them  away ;  then 
Debauchery,  and  identified  all  pleasure  with  the  town  ;  then  Avarice, 
and  we  have  ever  since  been  mistaking  the  means  for  the  end. 

Fortunately  it  does  not  follow,  that  we  shall  continue  to  do  so. 
Commerce,  while  it  thinks  it  is  only  exchanging  commoditiesj  is  help- 


233  THE  INDICATOR. 

ing  to  diffuse  knowledge.  All  other  gains, — all  selfish  and  extrava^ 
gant  systems  of  acquisition, — tend  to  over-do  themselves,  and  to  topple 
down  by  their  own  undiffused  magnitude.  The  world,  as  it  learns 
oth<^r  things^  may  learn  not  to  confound  the  means  with  the  end,  or  at 
least,  (to  speak  more  philosophically,)  a  really  poor  means  with  a  really- 
richer.  The  veriest  cricket-player  on  a  green  has  as  sufficient  a  quan- 
tity of  excitement  as  a  fundholder  or  a  partizan ;  and  healthy  and 
spirits,  and  manliness  to  boot.  Knowledge  may  go  on  ;  must  do  so, 
from  necessity ;  and  should  do  so,  for  the  ends  we  speak  of:  but 

^knowledge,  so  far  from  being  incompatible  with  simplicity  of  pleasures, 
is  the  quickest  Uo  perceive  its  wealth.  Chaucer  would  lie  for  hours, 
looking  at  the  daisies.  Scipio  and  Laelius  could  amuse  themselves 
with  making  ducks  and  drakes  on  the  water.     Epaminondas,   the 

'greatest  of  all  the  active  spirits  of  Greece^  was  a  flute-player  and 
dancer.  Alfred  the  Great  could  act \|^he  whole  part  of  a  ministrel. 
Epicurus  taught  the  riches  of  temperance  and  intellectual  pleasure  in 
a  garderi.  The  other  philosophers  of  his  country  walked  between 
heay.en,  and  earth  in  the  colloquial  bowers  of  Academus ;  and, '' the 

Svisest  heart  of  Solomon,"  who  found  every  thing  vain  because  he  was 
a  king,  has  left  us  panegyrics  on  the  Spring  and  "the  voice  of  the 

'turtlej"  because  he  >vas  a  poet,  a  loyer,  and  a  wise  inan. 


Orders  received  by  tlie  Newsmen,  by  Ihe'Baoksellen,  and  by  the  PnJ>)isher,  Joseph  Applej'SH-ct. 
Printed  by  Joseph  Appleyard,  No.  19,  Catherine-street,  Strand,— —Price  2d, 


THE    INDICATOR. 


There  he  arriving  round  aboit  doth  flie. 
And  takes  survey  virith  busie  curious  eye: 
Now  this,  now  that,  he  tasteth  tenderly. 

Spenser. 


No.  XXX.— WEDNESDAY,  MAY  3(1,   1820. 


SHAKSPEARE'S  BIRTH-DAY. 

Next  Friday,  making  the  proper  allowance  of  twelve  days  from  the; 
SiSd  of  April,  according  to  the  change  of  the  Style,  is  the  birth-day  of. 
Shakspeare.  Pleasant  thoughts  must  be  associated  with  him  in  every 
thing.  If  he  is  not  to  be  bora  in  April,  he  must  be  born  in  May. 
Nature  will  have  her  with  him  on  her  blfthest  holidays,  like  her 
favourite  lover. 

O  thou  divine  huma.n  creature,— greater  name  than  even  divine 
poet  or  divine  philosopher, — and  yet  thou  wast  all  three, — a  _very 
spring  and  vernal  abundance  of  all  fair  and  noble  things  is  to  be 
found  in  thy  productions !  They  are  truly  a  second  nature.  We 
walk  in  them,  with  whatever  society  we  please ;  either  with  men,  ot 
fair  women,  or  circling  spirits,  or  with  none  but  the  whispering  airs 
and  leaves.  Thou  makest  worlds  of  green  trees  and  gentle  natures 
for  us,  in  thy  forests  of  Arden,  and  thy  courtly  retirements  of  Na- 
varre. Thou  bringest  us  among  the- holiday  lasses  on  the  green  sward; 
layest  us  to  sleep  among  fairies  in  the  bowers  of  midsummer ;  wakest 
us  with  the  song  of  the  lark  and  the  silver-sweet  voices  of  lovers- 
bringest  more  music  to  our  ears,  both  from  earth  and  from  the  planets  ; 
anon  settest  us  upon  enchanted  islands,  where  it  welcomes  us  again^ 
from  the  touching  of  invisible  instruments;  and  after  all,  rcstorest  us 
{o  our  still  desired  haven,  the  arms  of  humanity.  Whether  grieving 
US  or  making  us  glad,  thou  makest  us  kinder  and  happier.  The  tears 
which  thou  fetchest  down  are  like  the  rains  of  Ajiril,  softening  the 
times  that  come  after  theni.  Thy  smiles  are  those- of  the  month  of 
love,  the  more  blessed  and  universal  for  the  tears. 

The  birth-days  of  such  men  as  Shakspeare  ought  to  be  kept,  in  com- 
mon gratitude  and  affection,  like  those  of  relations  whom  we  love. 
He  has  said,  in  a  line  full  of  him,  that 

One  touch  of  nature  makes  the  v/hole  world  kin- 


234  THE  INDICATOR. 

How  near  does  he  become  to  us  with  his  thousand  touches !  The 
lustrf  and  utility  of  intellectual  power  is  so  increasing  in  the  eyes  of 
the  -»'Orld,  that  we  do  not  despair  of  seeing  the  timfe  when  his  birth- 
day will  be  a  subject  of  public  rejoicing;  when  the  regular  feast  will 
be  served  up  in  tavern  and  dwelling-house,  the  bust  Crowned  with 
laurel,  and  the  theatres  sparkle  with  illuminations.  The  town  is  lucky 
enough  once  more  to  have  a  manager  who  is  an  enthusiast.  If  Mr. 
Elliston  would  light  up  the  front  of  his  theatre  next  Friday  with  the 
name  of  Shakspeare,  we  would  warrant  him  a  call  from  the  pit,  and 
whole  shouts  of  acknowledgment. 

In  the  meat!  time,  it  is  in  the  power  of  every  admirer  of  Shakspeare 
to  honour  the  day  privately.  Rich  or  poor,  busy  or  at  leisure,  ^U 
may  do  it.  The  busiest  finds  time  to  eat  his  dinner,  and  may  pitch 
one  considerate  glass  of  wine  down  his  throat.  The  poorest  may  call 
him  to  mind,  and  drink  his  memory  in  honest  water.  We  had  mecha- 
nically written  health,  as  if  he  were  alive.  So  he  is  in  spirit ; — and 
the  spirit  of  such  a  writer  is  so  constantly  with  us,  that  it  would  be  a 
good  thing,  a  judicious  extravagance,  a  contemplative  piece  of  jollity, 
to  drink  his  health  instead  of  his  memory.  But  this,  we  fear,  should 
be  an  impulse.  We  must  content  ourselves  with  having  felt  it  here, 
and  drinking  it  in  imagination.  To  act  upon  it,  as  a  proposal  of  the 
day  before  yesterday,  might  be  too  much  like  getting  up  an  extempore' 
gesture,  or  practising  an  unspeakable  satisfaction. 

An  outline  however  may  be  drawn  of  the  manner,  in  which  such  a 
birth-day  might  be  spent.  The  tone  and  colouring  would  be  filled  up, 
of  course,  according  to  the  taste  of  the  parties.  If  any  of  our  readers 
then  have  leisure  as  well  as  inclination  to  devote  a  day  to  the  memory 
of  Shakspeare,  we  would  advise  them,  in  the  first  place,  to  walk  out, 
whether  alone  or  in  company,  and  enjoy  during  the  morning  as  much 
as  possible  of  those  beauties  of  nature,  of  which  he  has  left  us  such 
exquisite  pictures.  They  would  take  a  volume  of  him  in  their  hands, 
the  most  suitabb  to  the  occasion  ;  not  to  hold  themselves  bound  to  "sit 
down  and  read  it,  nor  even  to  refer  to  it,  if  the  original  work  of  nature 
should  occupy  them  too  much  •  but  to  read  it,  if  they  read  any  thing ; 
and  to  feel  that  Shakspeare  was  with  them  substantially  as  well  as  spi- 
ritually ; — that  they  had  him  with  them  under  their  arm.  There  is 
another  thought  connected  with  his  presence,  which  may  render  the 
Londoner's  walk  the  more  interesting.  Shakspeare  had  neither  the 
Tanity,  which  induces  a  man  to  be  disgusted  with  what  every  body 
can  enjoy  ;  nor  on  the  other  hand  the  involuntary  self-degradation, 
which  renders  us  incapable  of  enjoying  what  is  abased  by  our  own  fami- 
liarity of  acquaintanceship.  About  the  metropolis  therefore,  there  is 
perhaps  not  a  single  rural  spot,  any  more  than  about  Stratford-upon- 
Avon,  which,  he  has  not  himself  enjoyed.  The  south  sidfe  of  London 
was  the  one  nearest  his  theatre.  Hyde  Park  was  then,  as  it  is  now, 
one  of  the  fashionable  promenades.  Richmond  also  was  in  high  pride 
of  estimation.  At  Greenwich  Elizabeth  held  her  court,  and  walked 
abroad  amid  the  gallant  service  of  the  Sydneys  and  Raleigh s.  And 
Hampstead  and  Highgate,  with  the  country  aJ)out  them,  were  as  they 


THE  INDICATOR.  S35 

hare  been  ever  since,  tli«  favourite  resort  of  the  lovers  of  natural  pro-, 
ductions.  Nay,  without  repeating  what  we  said  in  a  former  number 
about  the  Mermaid  in  Cornhill,  the  Devil  Tavern  in  Fleet-street,  the 
Boar's  Head  in  Eastcheap,  and  other  town  associations  with  Shakspeare, 
the  reader  who  cannot  get  out  of  London  on  his  birth-day,  and  who 
has  the  luck  to  be  hard  at  work  in  Chancery-lane  or  the  Borough, 
may  be  pretty  certain  that  Shakspeare  has  admired  the  fields  and  the 
May  flowers  there ;  for  the  fields  were  close  to  the  latter,  perhaps  , 
came  up  to  the  very  walls  of  the  theatre;  and  the  suburban-mansion 
and  gardens  of  his  friend  Lord  Southampton  occupied  the  spot  now 
called  Southampton-buildings.  It  was  really  a  country  neighbour- 
hood. The  Old  Bourne  (Holborn)  ran  by,  with  a  bridge  over  it ; 
and  Gray's  Inn  was  an  Academic  bower  in  the  fields. 

The  dinner'does  not  much  signify.     The  sparest  or  the  most  abun- 
dant will  equally  suit  the  various  fortunes  of  the  great  poet ;  only  it 
will  be  as  well  for  those  who  can  afford  wine,  to  pledge  Falstaff  in  a  cup 
of  "  sherris  sack,"  which  seems  to  have  been  a  sort  of  sherry  negus.  After 
dinner  Shakspeare's  volumes  will  come  well  on  the  table ;  lying  among 
the  desert  like  laurels,  where  there  is  one,  and  supplying  it  where 
there  is  not.     Instead  of  songs,  the  persons  present  may  be  called 
upon  for  scenes.     But  no  stress  need  be  laid  on  this  proposition,  if 
they  do  not  like  to  read  out  loud.     The  pleasure  of  the  day  should  be 
^s  much  at  liberty  as  possible  ;  and  if  the  company  prefer  conversa- 
tion, it  will  not  be  very  easy  for  them  to  touch  upon  any  subjects 
which  [Shakspeare  shall  not  have  touched  upon  also.     If  the  enthu- 
siasm is  in  high  taste,  the  ladies  should  be  crowned  with  violets,  which 
(next  to  the  roses  of  their  lips)  seem   to  have  been   his  favourite 
flower.      After  tea  should  come  singing  and  music,  esspecially  the 
songs  which  Arne  set  from  his  plays,   and  the  ballad  of  "  Thou  soft- 
flowing  Avon."     If  an  engraving  or  bust  of  him  could  occupy  the 
principal  place  in  the  room, , it  would  look  like  the  "  present  deity"  of 
the  occasion ;  and  we  have  known  a  very  pleasant  effect  produced  by 
every  body's  bringing   some  quotation  applicable  to   him   from  his 
works,  and  laying  it  before  his  image,  to  be  read  in  the  course  of  the 
evening. 

The  Editor  would  have  dilated  on  these  matters,  not  so  much  to 
recommend  what  the  enthusiasm  of  the  moment  will  suggest,  as  to 
enjoy  them  with  the  reader,  and  have  his  company,  as  it  were,  at  an 
imaginary  meeting.  But  he  is  too  unwell  just  now  to  write-much,  and 
should  have  taken  the  liberty  of  compiling  almost  the  whole  of  his  pre= 
sent  number,  could  he  have  denied  himself  the  pleasure  of  saying  a 
few  words  on  so  happy^an  occasion. 


AN  UNANSWERABLE  REPLY. 

For  the  reason  mentioned  in  the  preceding  article,  we  copy  the  fol- 
lowing account,  instead  of  re-writing  it.  We  can  do  so  with  the  less 
scruple,  inasmuch  as  the  work  from  which  it  is  taken,  Sewell's  History 


236  THE  INDICATOR. 

of  the  Quakers,  is  little  known  to  readers  in  general ;  and  indeed  the 
anecdote  may  well  speak  for  itself.  The  reader  will  smile,  when  we 
profess  to  be  no  Quakers  ourselves.  There  is  certainly  nothing  drab- 
coloured  in  our  religion,  especially  during  the  month  of  May ;  but 
■wherever  sincerity  and  kindness  come  together,  there  we  bow  our 
heads,  and  take  part  in  the  worship.  Thomas  Lurting,  the  hero  (truly 
so  called)  of  this  story,  was  a  Quaker,  at  a  time  when  the  sect  was  a 
positive,  enthusiastic  thing,  referring  to  the  first  and  best  principles  of 
Christianity ;  not  a  negation  and  a  dress,  satisfied  with  having  all  the 
"  good  things"  of  this  world,  not  indeed  under  the  rose,  but  under  the 
beaver.  And  yet  good  negative  points  are  something  too,  as  sects  go. 
It  is  not  unrefreshing  to  meet  with  a  religion,  which  has  a  respect  for 
peace  and  quietness,  and  declines  knocking  us  on  the  head. 

Thomas  Lurting  was  mate  aboard  a  Quaker  vessel,  returning  from 
Venice,  in  the  time  of  Charles  the  Second.  The  vessel  had  been 
taken  '  by  pirates,  and  retaken  by  Lurting.  But  we  retire  to  a  dis- 
tance, with  our  hats  respectfully  kept  on,  while  the  worthy  Mr.  Sewell 
speaks : — 

"  The  second  night  after,  the  captain  of  the  Turks,  andnone  of  his 
•  company,  being  gone  to  sleep  in  the  cabin  with  the  master,  the  mate 
persuaded  one  to  lie  in  his  cabin,  and  about  an  hour  after  another  in 
aiiother  cabin  ;  and  at  last  it  raining  very  much,  he  persuaded  them 
all  to  lie  down  and  sleep  :  and  when  they  were  all  asleep,  he  coming 
to  them,  fairly  got  their  arms  into  his  possession.  This  being  done, 
he  told  his  men,  "  Now  we  have  the  Turks  at  our  command,  no  man 
shall  hurt  any  of  them,  for  if  ye  do,  I  will  be  against  you  :  but  this  we 
will  do,  now  they  are  under  deck,  we  will  keep  them  so,  and  go  for 
Majorca."  Now,  having  ordered  some  to  keep  the  doors,  they  steered 
their  course  to  Majorca,  and  they  had  such  a  strong  gale,  that  in  the 
morning  they  were  near  it.  Then  he  ordered  his  men,  if  any  oiFered 
to  come  out,  not  to  let  above  one  or  two  at  a  time ;  and  when  one 
came  out,  expecting  to  have  seen  his  own  country,  he  was  not  a  little 
astonished  instead  thereof  to  see  Majorca.  Then  the  mate  said  to  his 
men,  "  Be  careful  of  the  door,  for  when  he  goes  in  we  shall  see  what 
they  will  do ;  but  have  a  care  not  to  spill  blood."  The  Turk  being 
gone  down,  and  telling  his  comrades  what  he  had  seen,  and  how  they 
were  going  to  Majorca,  they,  instead  of  rising,  all  fell  a  crying,  for 
their  courage  vras  quite  sunk  ;  and  they  begged  "  that  they  might  not 
be  sold."  This  the  mate  promised  them,  and  said,  "  They  should 
not."  And  when  he  had  appeased  them,  he  went  into  the  cabin  to 
the  master,  who  knew  nothing  of  what  was  done,  and  gave  him  an 
account  of  the  sudden  change,  and  how  they  had  overcome  the  Turks* 
Which,  when  he  understood,  he  told  their  captain,  "  That  the  vessel 
was  now  no  more  in  their  possession,  but  in  his  again  ;  and  that  they 
were  going  for  Majorca."  At  this  unexpected  news  the  captain  wept, 
and  desired  the  master  not  to  sell  him  ;  which  he  promised  he  would 
not.  Then  they  told  him  also,  they  would  make  a  place  to  hide  them 
in,  that  the  Spaniards  coming  aboard  should  not  find  them.  And  so- 
they  did  accordingly,  at  which  the  Turks  were  very  glad.     Being 


THE  INDICATOR.  237 

come  into  the  port  of  Majorca,  the  master,  with  four  men,  went 
ashore,  and  left  the  mate  on  board  with  ten  Turks.  The  master  having 
done  his  business,  returned  on  board,  not  taking  license,  lest  the 
Spaniards  should  come  and  see  the  Turks  :  but  another  English  master, 
being  an  acquaintance,  lying  there  also  with  his  ship,  came  at  night  on 
board ;  and  after  some  discourse,  they  told  him  what  they  had  done, 
under  promise  of  silence,  lest  the  Spaniards  should  come  and  take 
away  the  Turks.  But  he  broke  his  promise,  and  would  have  had  two 
or  three  of  the  Turks  to  have  brought  them  to  England.  His  design 
then  being  seen,  his  demand  was  denied ;  and  seeing  he  could  not  pre- 
vail, he  said  to  Pattison  and  his  mate,  "  That  they  were  fools,  because 
they  would  not  sell  the  Turks,  which  were  each  worth  two  or  three 
hundred  pieces  of  eight."  But  they  told  him,  "  That  if  they  would 
give  many  thousands,  they  should  not  have  one,  for  they  hoped  to  send 
them  home  again;  and  to  sell  them,"  the  mate  said,  "  he  would  not 
have  done  for  the  whole  island."  The  other  master  then  coming 
ashore,  told  the  Spaniards  what  he  knew  of  this,  who  then  threatened 
to  take  away  the  Turks.  But  Pattison  and  his  mate  having  heard  this, 
called  out  the  Turks,  and  said  to  them,  "  Ye  must  help  us,  or  the 
Spaniards  will  take  you  from  us."  To  this  the  Turks,  as  one  may 
easily  guess,  were  very  ready,  and  so  they  quickly  got  out  to  sea  :  and 
the  English,  to  save  the  Turks,  put  themselves  to  the  hazard  of  being 
overcome  again ;  for  they  continued  hovering  several  days,  because 
they  would  not  put  into  any  port  of  Spain,  for  fear  of  losing  the  Turks, 
to  whom  they  gave  liberty  for  four  or  five  days,  until  they  made  an 
attempt  to  rise;  which  the  mate  perceiving,  he  prevented,  without 
hurting  any  of  them,  though  he  once  laid  hold  of  one.  Yet  generally 
he  was  so  kind  to  them,  that  some  of  his  men  grumbled,  and  said, 
''  He  had  more  care  for  the  Turks  than  for  them."  To  which  his 
answer  was,  "  They  were  strangers,  and  therefore  he  must  treat  theta 
well."  At  length,  after  several  occurrences,  the  mate  told  the  master, 
"  That  he  thought  it  best  to  go  to  the  coasts  of  Barbary,  because  they 
were  then  lik-e  to  miss  their  men  of  war."  To  this  the  master  con- 
sented. However,  to  deceive  the  Turks,  they  sailed  to  and  fro  for 
several  days  ;  for  in  the  day-time  they  were  for  going  to  Algiers,  but 
when  night  came  they  steered  the  contrary  way,  and  went  back  again, 
by  which  means  they  kept  the  Turks  in  ignorance,  so  as  to  be  quiet. 

"  But  on  the  ninth  day,  being  all  upon  deck,  when  none  of  the 
English  were  there  but  the  master,  his  mate,  and  the  man  at  the  helm, 
they  began  to  be  so  untoward  and  haughty,  that  it  rose  in  the  mate's 
mind,  "  What  if  they  should  lay  hold  on  the  master,  and  cast  him 
overboard :"  for  they  were  ten  lusty  men,  and  he  but  a  little  man. 
This  thought  struck  him  with  terror;  but  recollecting  himself,  he 
stamped  with  his  foot,  and  the  men  coming  up,  one  asked  for  the 
crow,  and  another  for  the  axe,  to  fall  on  the  Turks  ;  but  the  Uiate  bade 
them,  not  to  hurt  the  Turks,  and  said,  *'  I  will  lay  hold  on  their  cap- 
tain ;"  which  he  did  :  for  having  heard  them  threaten  the  master,  he 
stepped  forward,  and  laying  hold  of  the  captain,  said  he  "  must  go 
down,"  which  he  did  very  quietly,  and  all   the   rest  followed  hira. 


t38  THE  INDICATOR. 

Two  days  after,  being  come  on  the  coast  of  Barbary,  they  were,  ac- 
cording to  what  the  Turks  said,  about  fifty  miles  from  Algiers,  and 
six  from  land  ;  and  in  the  afternoon  it  fell  calm.     But  how  to  set  the 
Turks  j)n  shore  was  yet  not  resolred  upon.     The  mate    saw  well 
enough,  that  he  being  the  man  who  had  begun  this  business,  it  would 
be  his  lot  also  to  bring  it  to  an  end.     He  then  acquainted  the   master 
that  he  was  willing  to  carry  the  Turks  on  shore  ;  but  how  to  do  this 
safely,  he  as  yet  knew  not  certainly ;  for  to  give  them  the  boat  was 
too  dangerous,  for  then  they  might  get  men  and  arms,  and  so  come 
and  retake  the  ship  with  its  own  boat ;  and  to  carry  them  on  shore 
with  two  or  three  of  the  ship's  men,  was  also  a  great  hazard,  because 
the  Turks  were  ten  in  number  :  and  to  put  one  half  on  shore  was  no 
less  dangerous  ;  for  then  they  might  raise  the  country,  and  so  surprise 
the  Efiglish  when  they  came  with  the  other  half.     In  this  great  strait, 
the  mate  said  to  the  master,  *'  if  he  would  let  him  have  the  boat  and 
three  men  to   go  with  him,  he  would  venture  to  put  the  Turks  on 
shore.''    The  master,  relying  perhaps  on  his  mate's  conduct,  consented 
to  the  proposal,  though  not  without  some  tears  dropt  on  both  sides. 
Yet  the  mate  taking  courage,  said  to  the  master,  "  I  believe  the  Lord 
will  preserve  me,  for  Hiave  nothing  but  good-will  in  venturing  my 
life ;  and  I  have  not  the  least  fear  upon  me ;  but  trust  that  all  will 
do  well."    The  master  having  consented,  the  mate  called  up  the  Turks, 
and  going  with  two  men  and  a  boy  in  the  boat,  took  in  these  tenTurks^ 
all  loose  and  unbound.     Perhaps  somebody  will   think  this  to  be  a 
very  inconsiderate  act  of  the  mate,  and  that  it  would  have  been  more 
prudent  to  have  tied  the  Turks'  hands,  the  rather  because  he  had  made 
the  men  promise,  that  they  should  do  nothing  to  the  Turks,  until  he 
said  "  he  could  do  no  more ;"  for  then  he  gave  them  liberty  to  act  for 
their  lives  so  as  they  judged  convenient.     Now  since  he  knew  not  how 
near  he  should  bring  the  Turks  ashore,  and  whether  they  should  not 
have  been  necessitated  to  swim  a  little,  it  seemed  not  prudent  to  do 
any  thing  which  might  hav^  exasperated  them  ;  for  if  it  had  fallen  out 
so  that  they  must  have  swam,  then  of  necessity  they  must  have  been 
untied,  which  would  have  been  dangerous.     Yet  the  mate  did  not 
omit  to  be  as  careful  as  possible  he  could.   For  calling  in  the  captain  of 
the  Turks,  he  placed  him  first  in  the  boat's  stern;  then  calling  for  an- 
other, he  placed  him  in  his  lap,  and  one  on  each  side,  and  two  more 
in  their  laps,  until  he  had  placed  them  all,  which  he  did  to  prevent  a 
sudden  rising.     He  himSelf  sat  with  a  boat-hook  in  his  hand  on    the 
tow  of  the  boat,  having  next  to  him  one  of  the  ship-men,  and  two 
that  rowed,  having  one  a  carpenter's  adze,  and  the  other  a  cooper*s 
heading  knife.     These  were  all  the  arms  besides  what  belonged  to  the 
Turks  which  they  had  at  their  command.     Thus  the  boat  went  off, 
and  stood  for  the  shore.     But  as  they  came  near  it,  the  men  growing 
afraid,  one  of  them  cried  out  of  a  sudden,  "  Lord  have  mercy  on  us, 
there  are  Turks  in  the  bushes  on  shore."    The  Turks  in  the  boat  per- 
ceiving the  English  to  be  afraid,  all  rose  at  once.     But  the  mate,  who 
in  this  great  strait  continued  to  be  hearty,  shewed  himself  now  to  be  a 
man  of  courage^  and  bid  the  men  to  "  take  up  such  arms  as  they  had. 


THE  INDICATOR.  s  239 

but  do  nothing  with  them  until  he  gave  them  leave."  And  then  see- 
ing that  there  were  no  men  in  the  bushes,  and  that  it  Avas  only  an  ima- 
gination, all  fear  was  taken  away  from  him,  and  his  courage  increas- 
ing, he  thought  with  himself,  it  is  better  to  strike  a  man,  than  to 
cleave  a  man's  head,  and  turning  the  boat-hook  in  his  hand,  he  struck 
the  captain  a  smart  blow,  and  bid  him  sit  down,  which  he  did  in- 
stantly, and  so  did  all  the  rest.  After  the  boat  was  come  so  near  the 
shore,  that  they  could  easily  wade,  the  mate  bid  the  Turks  jump  out, 
and  so  they  did  ;  and  because  they  said  they  were  about  four  miles 
from  a  town,  he  then  gave  them  some  loaves,  and  other  necessaries. 
They  would  fain  have  persuaded  the  English  to  go  with  them  ashore  to 
a  town,  promising  to  treat  them  with  wine,  and  other  good  things  ;  but 
though  the  mate  trusted  in  Divine  Providence,  yef  he  was  not  so  care- 
less as  freely  to  enter  into  an  apparent  danger,  without  being  necessi- 
tated thereto  :  for  though  he  had  some  thoughts  that- the  Turks  would 
not  have  done  him  any  evil,  yet  it  was  too  hazardous  thus  to  have 
yielded  to  the  mercy  of  those  that  lived  there  ;  and  therefore  he  verj-" 
prudently  rejected  their  invitation,  well  knowing  that  the  Scripture 
saith,  "  Thou  shalt  not  tempt  the  Lord  thy  God."  The  Turks  see- 
ing they  could  not  persuade  him,  took  their  leave  with  sigils  of  gi-eat 
kindness,  and  so  went  on  shore.  The  English  then  putting  the  boat 
closer  in,  threw  them  all  their  arms  on  shore,  being  unwilling  to  keep 
any  thing  of  theirs.  And  when  the  Turks  got  up  the  hill,  they  waved, 
their  caps  at  the  English,  and  so  joyfully  took  their  last  farewell.  And 
as  soon  as  the  boat  came  again  on  board,  they  had  a  fair  wind,  which 
they  had  not  all  the  while  the  Turks  were  on  board.  Thus  Thomas 
Lurting  saved  the  ship  and  its  men  ;  which  being  thus  wonderfully 
preserved,  returned  to  England  with  a  prosperous  wind.  Now  be- 
fore the  vessel  arrived  at  London,  the  news  of  this  extraordinary  case 
was  come  thither,  and  when  she  was  coming  up  the  Thames,  the  King, 
with  the  Duke  of  York,  and  several  Lords  being  at  Greenwich,  it 
was  told  him,  there  was  a  Quaker's  ketch  coming  up  the  River  that  had 
been  taken  by  the  Turks,  and  redeemed  themselves  without  fighting. 
The  King  hearing  this,  came  with  his  barge  to  the  ship's  side,  and 
holding  the  entering-rope  in  his  hand,  he  understood  from  the  mate's 
own  mouth,  how  the  thing  had  happened.  But  when  he  heard  him 
say,  how  they  had  let  the  Turks  go  free,  he  said  to  the  master,  ''  You 
have  done  like  a  fool,  for  you  might  have  had  good  gain  for  them  :'' 
and  to  the  mate  he  said,  "  You  should  have  brought  the  Turks  to  me.'* 
But  the  mate  answered,  "  I  thought  it  bettey  for  them  to  be  in  their 
own  country." 


240  THE  INDICATOR. 

EPITAPH  ON  A  DOG. 
(From  the  Latin  of  Vincent  Bourne.) 


Poor  Irus"  faithful  Wolf-dog  here  I  lie, 

That  wont  to  tend  my  old  blind  master's  steps. 

His  guide  and  guard  :  nor,  while  my  service  lasted. 

Had  he  occasion  for  that  staff,  with  which 

He  now  goes  picking  out  his  path  in  fear 

Over  the  highways  and  crossings;  but  would  plant. 

Safe  in  the  conduct  of  my  friendly  string, 

A  firm  foot  forward  still,  till  he  had  reached 

Ills  seat,  by  some  road  side,  nigh  where  the  tids 

Of  passers-by  in  thickest  confluence  flowed  r 

To  whom  with  loud  and  passionate  laments 

From  morn  to  ere  his  dark  estate  he  wailed. 

Nor  wailed  to  all  in  vain  :  some  here  and  there. 

The  well-disposed  and  good,  their  pennies  gave, 

I  meantime'at  his  feet  obsequious  slept  j 

Not  all-asleep  in  sleep,  but  heart  and  ear 

Pricked  up  at  his  least  motion — to  receive 

At  bis  kind  hand  my  customary  crumbs, 

And  common  portion  in  his  feast  of  scraps — 

Or  when  night  warned  us  homewards,  tired  and  spent 

With  our  long  day  and  tedious  beggary. 

These  were  my  manners,  this  my  way  of  life. 

Till  age  and  slow  disease  me. overtook. 

And  severed  from  my  sightless  master's  side. 

But  lest  the  grace  of  so  good  deeds  should  die. 

Through  tract  of  years  in  mute  oblivion  lost. 

This  slender  tomb  of  turf  hath  J/us reared. 

Cheap  monument  of  no  ungrudging  hand. 

And  with  short  verse  inscribed  it  to  attest, 

In  long  and  lasting  union  to  attest, 

The  virtues  of  the  Beggar  and  his  Dog. 

C.  Lit 


Orders  received  by  the  Newsmen,  by  the  Booksellers,  and  by  the  Publisher,  Joseph  AppleygirS,   ' 

Printed  by  Joseph  Appleyard,  No.  I9t  Catherine-street,  Strand,— Price  9d,  ^ 


THE    INDICATOR. 


Tltere  he  arriving  round  about  doth  flie. 
And  takes  surrey  with  busie  curious  eye: 
Now  this,  now  that,  he  tasteth  tenderly. 

Spensrs. 


No.  XXXI.— WEDNESDAY,  MAY  lOth,   1820. 


EOUSSEAU'S  PYGMALION* 


We  are  not  aware  that  thifi  piece  of  Rousseau's  has  hitherto  appeared 
in  English.  It  is  a  favourite  in  France,  and  very  naturally  so,  on  all 
accounts.  To  our  countrymen  there  will  perhaps  appear  to  be  some- 
thing, in-parts  of  it,  too  declamatory  and  full  of  ejaculation  ;  and  it 
must  be  confessed,  that  if  the  story  alone  is  to  be  considered,  the  illus- 
trious author  has  committed  one  great  fault,  which  was  hardly  to  be 
expected  of  him ;  and  that  is,  that  he  has  not  made  the  sentiment  suf- 
ficently  prominent.  The  original  story,  though  spoiled  by  the  ral^e 
Ovid,  informs  us,  that  Pygmalion  with  all  his  warmth  towards  the  sex 
•was  so  disgusted  at  the  manners  of  his  countrywomen,  that  instead  of 
going  any  longer  into  their  society,  he  preferred  making  images,  in  his 
own  mind,  and  with  his  chisel,  of  what  a  woman  ought  to  be  ;  inform- 
ing her  looks,, of  course,  with  sentiment, and  kindness,  as  well  as  with 
the  more  ordinary  attractions.  It :  appears  to  us,  therefore,  that  in- 
stead of  making  him  fall  in  love,  almost  out  of  vanity,  as  Rousseau  has 
done,  it  might  have  been  better,  in  the  abstract  point  of  view  above 
mentioned,  to  represent  him  fashioning  the  likeness  of  a  creature  after 
his  own  heartj  lying  and  looking  at  it  w4th  a  yearning  wish  that  he 
could  have  met  with  such  a  living  being,  and  at  Jast,  while  indulging 
his  imagination  with  talking  to  her,  making  him  lay  his  hand  upon  hers, 
and  finding  it  warm.  The  rest  is,  in  every  respect,  exquisitely 
:  managed  by  RpAsseau.  But  now  we  must  observe,  that  while  the 
^-pharge  of  a  certain  prevailing  air  of  insincerity  over  the  French  style 
-in  these  matters,  appears  just  in  most  instances,  a  greater  confidence  is 
to  be  put  in  the  enthusiasm  of  the  Genevese;  for  he  was  a  kind  of 
Pygmalion  himself,  disgusted  with  the  world,  and  perpetually  yet 
hopelessly  endeavouring  to  realize  the  dreams  of  his  imagination, 
■rrhis,  after  all,  is  perhaps  the  most  touching  thing  in  his  performance. 
Pygmalion's  self  predominates  over  the  idea  of  his  mistress,  because 
the  author's  self  pressed  upon  him  while  he  vvrote.  The  only  actual 
difference  between  the  fabulous  solitary  and  the  real  one,  was,  unfor- 
tunately, that  Pygmalion  seems  to  have  been  willing  enough  to.be  con- 
tented, had  he  found  a  mistress  that  deserved  him ;  whereas  Rousseau, 
-when  he  was  really  beloved,  and  even  thought  himself  so,  was  sure  to 
-  be  made  the  ruin  of  his  own  comfort ;  partly  by  a  distrustful  mor- 
bidity of  temperament,  and  partly  perhaps  by  a  fastidious  metaphysi- 
cal subtlety,  which,  turn*^  his  eye  with  a  painful  sharpness  upon  the 


242  THE  INDICATOR. 

defects  Instead  of  humanities  of  his  fellow-creatureSj  and  made  the  in- 
dividual answer  for  the  whole  mass. 

The  Scene  represents  a  Sculptures  work-shop,  in  which  are  sevfe* 
ral  blocks  6f  marble,  sculptured  groups,  and  sketched  of  sta(ues. 
In  the  midst  of  these  is  another  statue^  Concealed  under  a  drapery  of 
a  light  and  shining  stuff,  ornamented  with  fringes  and  garlands. 

Pygmalion  is  sitting,  supporting  his  head  with  his  hand,  in  the  atti- 
tude of  a  man  who  is  uneasy  and  melancholy.     On  a  sudden  he   rises  ; 
and  taking  one  of  his  tools  from  a  table,  gives  some  strokes  of  the 
chisel  to  several  of  the  sketches ;  then  turns  from  them,  and  looks ' 
about  him  with  an  air  of  discontent. 

Pygmalion.  There  is  neither  life  nor  soul  in  it  j  it  is  but  a  mere 
stone.     I  shall  never  do  any  tiling  with  all  this.,  ' 

Ohj  my  genius,  where  art  thou  ?  What  is  become  of  thee  ?  AH 
my  fire  is  extinguished,  my  imagination  is  frozen ;  the  marble  come/ 
cold  from  my  hands. 

Make  no  more  gods,  Pygmalion:  you  are  but  a  common  artist— 
-Ye  vile  instruments,  no  longer  instruments  of  my  glory^  ye  shall  dis- 
honour my  hands  no  more. 

(He  throws  away  his  tools  with  disdain^  and  walks  about  with  his 
arms  crossed^  as  in  meditation.) 

What  am  I  become  ?  What  strange  revolution  has  taken  place  in  * 
me  ?— Tyre,  proud  and  opulent  city,  your  illustrious  monuments  of 
art,  no  longer  attract  me.  I  have  lost  my  taste  for  them.  All  inter- 
course with  artists  and  philosophers  has  become  insipid  to  me  :  the 
society  of  painters  and  poets,  has  no  attraction  for  me ;  praise  and  re- 
nown have  ceased  tb  elevate  me ;  the  approbation  of  posterity  has  no 
interest  for  me ;  even  friendship  has  to  me  lost  all  her  charms. 

And  youj  young  tnasterpiecies  of  nature,  whom  my  art  has  presumed 
to  imitate,  youj  in  whose  train  the  pleasures  ever  led  me,  you,  my 
charming  models^  who  consumed  me  at  once  with  the  flames  of  love 
and  genius,-*since  I  have  surpassed  youj  you  are  all  become  indtf-    i 
ferent  to  me. 

(He  seats  himself,  and  contemplates  the  figures  around  him.) 

Detained  in  this  room  by  an  inconceivable  charm,  I  know  not  what 
to  do  here,  and  yet  I  cannot  leave  it.  I  wander  from  group  to  group, 
from  figure  to  figure^  my  weak  and  uncertain  chisel  no  longer  acknow- 
ledging it's  master.  These  rude  sketches  are  left  untouched  by  the 
hand  which  should  have  given  them  life  and  beauty 

(He  ri^es  impetuously «) 

It  is  over,  it  is  over  z  I  have  lost  my  genius !  So  young— and  yet  I 
have  survived  it! 

And  what  then  is  this  Internal  ardour  which  consumes  me  ?  What  is 
this  fire  which  devours  me  ?  Why  in  the  languor  of  extinguished 
genius,  should  I  feel  these  emotions,  these  bursts  of  impetuous  passion, 
this  insurmountable  restlessness,  this  secret  agitation  which  torments 
me  ?  I  kno'w  not :  I  fear  the  admiration  of  my  own  work  has  been  the  - 
cause  of  this  distraction  :  I  have  concealed  it  under  this  veil — my  pro- 
fane hands  have  ventured  to  cover  this  monument  of  their  glory.  Since 
I  hav§  ceased  to  behold  it,  I  have  become  more  melancholy  and  absent. 


THE  INDICATOR.  243 

How  dear,  how  precious,  this  immortal  work  will  be  to  me  !  If  my 
exhausted  mind  shall  never  more  produce  any  thing  grand,  beautiful, 
worthy  of  me,  I  will  point  to  my  Galatea,  and  say,  "  There  is  my 
work."  Oh  my  Galatea !  when  I  shall  have  lost  all  else,  do  thou 
alone  remain  to  me,  and  I  shall  be  consoled. 

(He  approaches  the  veiled  siatue  ;  draws  back;  goes,  comeg;  stop* 
sometimes  to  look  at  it,  and  sighs.) 

But  why  conceal  it  I  What  do  J  gain  by  that  ?    Reduced  to  idleness, 
why  refuse  myself  the  pleasure  of  contemplating  the  ^nest  of  my 

.  works  ? r-Perhaps  there  may  yet  be  some  defect  whicTi  I  have  not 

perceived  ;  perhaps  I  might  yet  add  some  ornament  to  the  drapery ; 
no  imaginable  grape  should  be  wanting  to  so  charming  an  object.  Per- 
haps the  contemplation  of  this  figure  may  re-animate  my  languishing 
imagination.  I  must  see  her  again ;  I  must  examine  my  work.  What 
do  I  say  I  Yes ;  I  have  never  yet  examined  it ;  hitherto  I  have  only 
j^mired  her. 

(He  goes  to  raise  the  veil,  and  lets  it  fall,  as  if  aljirmed.) 

I  know  not  what  emotion  seizes  me  when  I  touch  this  veil :  I  feeft, 
tremor,  as  though  I  were  touching  the  sanctuary  of  some  divinity. — 

Pygmaliqn,  it  is  but  a  stone  ;  it  is  thine  own  work-n What  can  it 

mean?  In  our  teijiples,  they  serve  gpds  made  of  the  same  material, 
and  formed  by  the  same  hand  a^  this. 

(He  raises  the  veil  trembling,"  and  prostrates  himself  before  the  statue 
of  Galatea,  which  is  seen  placed  on  a  pedestal,  raised  by  semicircular 
steps  of  marble.) 

Oh,  Galatea!  receive  my  homage.  I  have  deceived  myself;  I 
thought  to  make  you  a  nymph,  and  I  have  made  you  a  goddess.  Even 
Venus  herself  is  less  beautiful. 

O  vanity,  human  weakness !  I  am  never  'weary  of  admiring  n\y  own 
work  ;  I  am  intoxicated  with  self-love  ;  I  adore,  myself  in  4;hat  which 

I  have  made' ^No,  never  was  there  any  thin^  in  nature  so  beautiful ; 

I  have  surpassed  the  work  of  the  Grods- ?What !.  so  ma,ny  beauties 

formed  by  my  hands  j  my  hands  then  have  touched  them  ;  my  mouth 

Jias 1  see  a  defect.     This  drapery  too  much  conceals  it.     I  must 

slope  it  away  more;  the  charms  which  it  shades  should  be  more 
displayed. 

(He  takes  his  mallet  and  chisel,  and,  advancing  slowly,  begins  with 
much  hesitation  to  ascend  the  steps  towards  the  statu?,  \yhich  if,  seems 
he  dares  not  touch.     He  raises  the  chisel,  he  stops.). 

What  is  this  trouble — this  trembling?  I  hold  the  chisel  with  a 
feeble  hand — I  cannot — I  dare  not — ;I  shall  spoil  every  thing, 

(He  endeavours  to  conquer  his  trouble,  and  at  last  raising  the  chisel 
isgain,  makes  one  stroke  and  lets  it  fal.^,  with  a  loud  cry.} 

Gods  !  I  feel  the  quivering  flesh  repel  the  phisel  \ 

(He  descends,  trembling  and  confused,) 

Vain  terror,  hlipd  folly ! — No — I  will  not  touch  her-!-lhe  Gods 

affright  me.     Doubtless  she  is  already  deified, 

(He  contemplates  her  again.) 

What  would  you  change,  Pygmalion?  Look!  what  new  charms 
can  you  give  her  ?  Alas!  her  only  fault  is  her  perfection.— DiTiue 
Galateia,  I  less  perfect^  nothing  would  be  wanting  to  thee. 


544  ^  THE  INDICATOR. 

(Tenderly.) 

Yet  a  soul  is  wanting.     That  figure  should  not  be  without  a  soul. 

(With  still  encreasing  tenderness.) 

How  fine  should  be  the  soul  to  animate  that  body ! 

(He  stops  a  long  time  :  then  returns  to  his  seat,  and  speaks  ^ith  a 
slow  and  changed  voice.) 

What  desires  have  I  dared  to  form  ?  What  senseless  wishes  !  What 
is  this  I  feel— Oh  heaven!  the  illusion  vanishes,  and  I  dare  not  look 
into  my  heart.     I  should  have  too  much  to  reproach  myself  with. 

(He  pauses  a  long  time,  in  profound  melancholy.) 

This  then  is  the  nobl«  passion  which  distracts  me !  It  is  on 
account  of  this  inanimate  figure,  that  I  dare  not  go  out  of  this  spot ! — 
A  figure  of  marble ! — A  stone ! — A  hard  and  unformed  mass,  until 
worked  with  this  iron  !—:— Madman,  recover  thyself,  see  thine  error, 
groan  for  thy  folly But  no 

(Impetuously.) 
.  #No,  I  have  not  lost  my  reason  ;  no,  I  am  not  wandering ;  I  reproach 
myself  with  nothing.  It  is  not  of  this  marble  that  I  am  enamoured  ; 
it  is  of  a  living  being  whom  it  resembles :  the  figure  which  it  presents 
to  my  eyes.  Wherever  this  adorable  form  may  be,  whatever  body 
Inay  bear  it,  whatever  hand  may  have  made  it,  she  will  have  all  the 
yows  of  my  heart.  Yes,  my  only  folly  is  in  the  power  of  discerning 
beauty;  my  only  crime  is  being  sensible  to  it.  There  is  nothing  in 
this  1  ought  to  blush  for. 

(Less  lively,  but  always  with  passion.) 

What  arrows  of  fire  seem  to  issue  from  this  object  to  burn  my 
senses,  and  to  carry  away  my  soul  unto  their  source  !  Alas  !  she  re- 
mains immoveable. and  cold,  while  my  heart,  consumed  by  her  charms, 
longs  to  quit  my  own  body  to  give  warmth  to  her's.  I  imagine  in  my 
delirium  that  I  could  spring  from  myself,  that  I  could  give  to  her  my 
life,  that  I  could  animate  her  with  my  soul.  Ah,  let  Pygmalion  die, 
to  live  in  (Galatea! — What  do  I  say,  O  heaven?  If  I  were  she,  I 
should  no  longer  see  her ;  I  should  not  be  he  that  loves  her  ! — No,  let 
my  Galatea  live ;  but  let  not  me  become  Galatea.  Oh  !  let  me  always 
be  another,  always  wish  her  to  be  herself,  to  love  her,  to  be  beloved— 

(Transported.) 

Torments,  vows,  desires,  impotent  rage,  terrible,  fatal  love Oh ! 

all  hell  is  in  my  agitated  heart— — Powerful,  beneficent  Gods ! — Gods 
pf  the  people,  who  know  the  passions  of  men,  ah,  how  many  miracles 
have  you  done  for  small  causes  !  Behold  this  object,  look  into  my 
heart,  be  just,  and  deserve  your  altars ! 

(With  a  more  pathetic  enthusiasm.) 

And  thou,  sublime  essence,  who  concealing  thyself  from  the  senses, 
art  felt  in  the  heart  of  men,  soul  of  the  universe,  principle  of  all  exis- 
.tence,  thou  who  .by  love  givest  harmony  to  the  elements,  life  to  matter, 
feeling  to  bodies,  and  form  to  all  beings ;  sacred  fire,  celestial  Venus, 
by  whom  every  thing  is  preserved,  and  unceasingly  re-produced  !  Ah, 
where  is  thy  equalizing  justice  ?  AVhere  is  thy  expansive  power  ? 
Where  is  the  law  of  nature  in  the  sentiment  I  experience  ?  Where  is 
thy  vivifying  warmth  in  the  inanity  of  my  vain  desires  ?  All  thy  flame* 
are  concentrated  in  my  heart,  and  the  coldness  of  death  remains  upo^ 


THE  INDICATOR.  245 

this  marble ;  I  perish  by  the  excess  of  life  which  this  figure  wants. 
Alas !  I  expect  no  prodigy  ;  already  one  exists,  and  ought  to  cease ; 
.order  is  disturbed,  nature  is  outraged;  restore  to  her  laws  their  em- 
pire, re-establish  her  beneficent  course,  and  equally  shed  thy  divine 
influence.  Yes,  two  beings  are  left  out  of  the  plenitude  of  things. 
Pivide  between  them  that  devouring  ardour  which  consumes  the  one 
without  animating  the  other.  It  is  thou  who  hast  formed  by  my  hand  , 
these  charms,  and  these  features,  which  want  but  life  and  feeling. 
Give  to  her  the  half  of  mine.  Give  all,  if  it  be  necessary.  It  shall 
suffice  me  to  live  in  her.  Oh  thou  1  who  deignest  to  smile  upon  the 
homage  of  mortals,  this  being  who  feels  nothing,  honours  thee  not. 
Extend  thy  glory  with  thy  works.  Goddess  of  beauty,  spare  this 
alFront  to  nature,  that  a  form  so  perfect  should  be  an  image  of  which 
there  is  no  living  model ! 

(He  gradually  re-approaches  the  statue  with  an  air  of  confidence 
and  joy.) 

I  resume  my  senses.  What  an  unexpected  calm!  What  unhoped 
courage  re-animates  me  !  A  mortal  fever  burned -my  blood,  a  balm  of 
confidence  and  hope  flows  in  my  veins,  and  I  feel  a  new  life.  Thus 
the  sense  of  our  dependence  sometimes  becomes  our  consolation. 
However  unhappy  mortals  may  be,  when  they  have  invoked  the  Gods, 
they. are  more  tranquil— — And  yet  this  unjust  confidence  deceives 
thost!  who  form  senseless  wishes. — Alas!  in  the  condition  I  am  in,  we 
call  upon  every  one,  and  no  one  hears  us ;  the  hope  which  deceives  is 
more  senseless  than  the  desire. 

Ashamed  of  so  many  follies,  I  dare  no  more  to  contemplate  the  cause 
of  them.  When  I  wish  to  raise  my  eyes  towards  this  fatal  object,  I 
feel  a  new  trouble,  a  sudden  palpitation  takes  my  breath,  a  secret 
tremor  stops  me 

(With  bitter  irony.) 

Oh,  look,  poor  soul!  summon  courage  enough  to  dare  behoid  a 
statue, 

(He  sees  it  become  animated,  and  turns  away  with  alarm  ;  his  heart 
oppressed  with  grief.) 

What  have  I  seen?  Gods!  what  have  I  imagined  tliat  I  saw?  A 
colour  on  the  flesh,  a  fire  in  the  eyes,  even  movement  ■  It  was  not 
enough  to  hope  for  a  miracle;  to  complete  my  misery,  at  last  I  have 
seen 

(With  expressive  melancholy.)  ' 

Unhappy  creature,  all  is  over  with  thee thy  delirium  is  at  It's 

height         thy  reason  as  well  as  thy  genius  abandons  thee.     Regret  it 
not,  Pygmalion,  for  the  loss  will  conceal  thy  shame.  ' 

(With  indignation.) 

The  lover  of  a  stone  is  too  happy  in  becoming  a  visionary. 

(He  turns  again,  and  sees  the  statue  move  and  descend  the  steps  in 
front  of  the  pedestal.  He  falls  on  his  kiiees,  and  raises  his  hands  and 
eyes  towards  heaven.) 

Immortal  Gods !  Venus,  Galatea !  Oh,  illusion  of  a  furious  love ! 

(Galatea  touches  herself,  and  says) — Me ! 

(Pygmalion  transported)— Me ! 


846  THE  INDICATOR. 

(Galatea  touching  herself  again) — It  is  myself. 

(Pygmalion) — Ravishing  illusion,  which  even  reaches  my  ears  !  Oh, 
never,  never  abandon  me, 

(Galatea  moves  towards  another  figure  and  touches  it) — Not  myself. 

(Pygmalion  in  an  agitation,  in  transports  vchieh  he  can  with  difficulty 
restrain,  follows  all  her  movements,  listens  to  her,  observes  her  with  a 
covetous  attention,  which  scarely  allows  him  to  breathe.  Galatea 
advances  and  looks  at  him ;  he  rises  hastily,  extends  his  arms,  and 
looks  at  her  with  delight.  She  lays  her  hand  on  his  arm ;  he  trembles, 
takes  the  hand,  presses  it  to  his  heart,  and  covers  it  with  ardent  kisses.) 

(Galatea,  with  a  sigh; — Ah !  it  is  I  again. 

(Pygmalion)— Yes,  dear  and  charming  object — thou  worthy  master-, 
piece  of  my  hands,  of  my  heart,  and  of  the  Gods !  It  is  thou,  it  is 
thou  alone— I  have  given  thee  all  my  being — henceforth  I  will  live  but 
for  thee. 


LA  BELLE  DAME  SANS  MERCY. 

Among  the  pieces  printed  at  the  end  of  Chaucer's  works,  and  attri- 
buted to  him,  is  a  translation,  under  this  title,  of  a  poem  of  the  cele- 
brated Alain  Chartier,  Secretary  to  Charles  the  Sixth  and  Seventh.  It 
was  the  title  which  suggested  to  a  friend  the  verses  at  the  end  of  our 
present  number.  We  wish  Alain  could  have  seen  them.  He  would 
have  found  a  Troubadour  air  for  them,  and  sung  them  to  La  Belle  Dame 
Agnes  Sorel,  who  was  however  not  Sans  Mercy.  The  union  of  the 
imaginative  and  the  real  is  very  striking  throughout,  particularly  in 
the  dream.  The  wild  gentleness  of  the  rest  of  the  thoughts  and  of  the 
music  are  alike  old ;  and  they  are  also  alike  young ;  for  love  and  ima- 
gination are  always  young,  let  them  bring  with  them  what  times  and 
accompaniments  they  may.  If  we  take  real  flesh  and  blood  with  us, 
we  may  throw  ourselves,  on  the  facile  wings  of  our  sympathy,  into 
what  age  we  please.  It  is  only  by  trying  to  feel,  as  well  as  to  fancy, 
through  the  medium  of  a  costume,  that  writers  become  mere  fleshless 
masks  and  cloaks, — things  like  the  trophies  of  the  ancients,  when  they 
hung  up  the  empty  armour  of  an  enemy,  A  hopeless  lover  would 
still  feel  these  verses,  in  spite  of  the  introduction  of  something 
unearthly.  Indeed  any  lover,  truly  touched,  or  any  body  capable  of 
being  so,  will  feel  them ;  because  love  itself  resembles  a  visitation  ;  and 
the  kindest  looks,  which  bring  with  them  an  inevitable  portion  of  hap- 
piness because  they  seem  happy  themselves,  haunt  us  with  a  spell-like 
power,  which  makes  us  shudder  to  guess  at  the  sufferings  of  those  who 
can  be  fascinated  by  unkind  ones. 

People  however  need  not  be  much  alarmed  at  the  thought  of  such 
sufferings  now-a-days ;  not  at  least  in  some  countries.  Since  the  time 
when  ladies,  and  cavaliers,  and  poets,  and  the  lovers  of  nature,  felt 
that  humanity  was  a  high  and  not  a  mean  thing,  love  in  general  has 
become  either  a  grossiit?ss  or  a  formality.  The  modern  systems 
of  morals  would  ostensibly  divide  women  into  two  chisses,  those 
who  have  no  charity,  and  those  who  have  no  restraint  ^  while  n;en, 


THE  INDICATOR.  247 

poorly  Conversant  with  the  tatter,  and  rendered  indifferent  to  the 
former,  acquire  bad  ideas  of  both.  Instead  of  the  worship  of  Lore, 
we  have  the  worship  of  Mammon ;  and  all  the  diflFerence  we  can  see 
between  the  sufferings  attending  on  either  is,  that  the  sufferings  from 
the  worship  of  Love  exalt  and  humanize  us,  and  those  from  the  wor- 
ship of  Mammon  debase  and  brutalize.  Between  the  delights  there  is 
no  comparison. — Still  our  uneasiness  keeps  our  knowledge  going  on. 

A  word  or  two  more  of  Alain  Chartier*s  poem.  "  M.  Aleyn,'* 
saith  the  argument,  "  secretary  to  the  king  of  France,  framed  this 
dialogue  between  a  gentleman  and  a  gentlewoman,  who  finding  no 
mercy  at  her  hand,  dieth  for  sorrow."  We  know  not  in  what  year 
Chartier  was  born  ;  but  he  must  have  lived  to  a  good  age,  and  written 
this  poem  in  his  youth,  if  Chaucer  translated  it ;  for  he  died  in  1449, 
and  Chaucer,  an  old  man,  ia  1400.  The  beginning  however,  as  well 
as  the  goodness  of  the  version,  looks  as  if  our  countryman  had  done  it ; 
for  he  speaks  of  the  transl?.tion's  having  been  enjoined  him  by  way 
of  penance ;  and  the  Legend  of  Good  Women  was  the  result  of  a 
smilar  injunction,  in  consequence  of  his  having  written  some  stories 
not  so  much  to  the  credit  of  the  sex !  He, — who  as  he  represents, 
had  written  infinite  things  in  their  praise  !  But  the  Court-ladies,  it 
seems,  did  not  relish  the  story  of  Troilus  and  Cressida.  The  exor- 
dium, which  the  translator  has  added,  is  quite  in  our  poet's  manner. 
He  says,  that  he  rose  one  day,  not  well  awaked  •  and  thinking  how  he 
should  best  enter  upon  his  task,  he  took  one  of  his  morning  walks, 

Till  I  came  to  a  lusty  green  valley 

Full  of  flowers,  to  see  a  great  pleasaunce; 

And  so,  boldly,  (with  their  benign  sxifferance 

Which  read  this  book,  touching  this  matt^re)  , 

Thus  I  began,  if  it  please  you  to  hear. 

Master  Aleyn's  dialogue,  which  is  very  long,  will  not  have  mudt. 
interest  except  for  those  who  are  in  the  situation  of  his  lover  and  belle 
Dame ;  but  his  introduction  of  it,  his  account  of  his  riding  abroad, 
thinking  of  his  lost  mistress,<-^hi3  hearing  music  in  a  garden,  and 
being  pressed  by  some  friends  who  saw  him  to  come  in,— 4s  all 
extremely  lively  and  natural.  At  his  entrance,  the  ladies,  "  every 
one  by  one,"  bade  him  welcome  "  a  great  deal  more  than  he  was 
worthy."  They  are  waited  upon,  at  their  repast,  not  by  *'  deadly 
servants,"  but  by  gentlemen  and  lovers ;  of  one  of  whom  he  proceeds 
to  give  a  capital  picture. 

Eraong  all  other,  one  I  gan  espy, 

Which  in  great  thought  ful  often  came  and  wentj 

As  one  that  had  been  ravished  utterly: 

In  his  language  not  greatly  dilligent, 

His  countenance  he  kept  with  great  turmenf,  ' 

But  his  desire  farre  passed  his  reason^ 

For  ever  his  eye  went  after  his  entent. 

Full  many  a  time,  when  it  was  no  season. 

'      To  make  chere,  sore  himselfe  he  pained. 
And  outwardly  he  fained  great  gladnesse; 
To  sing  also,  by  force  he  was  constraine^d, 
For  no  pleasaunce,  but  very  shamefastnesse; 
For  the  complaint  of  his  most  heavinesse 
,  '  Came  to  his  voice.  '^ 


248  THE  rNDICATOJg. 

But  to  return  (o  our  other  Belle  Dame. 

LA  RliLLE  DAME  SANS  MERCY. 

All,  what  can  nil  ihee,  wretched  wight. 

Alone  and  palely  loitering; 
Tlie  sed{;e  is  wither'd  from  the  lake, 
And  no  birds  sing. 

•  -     All,  what  cai)  ?il  thee,  wretched  wight. 

So  haggard  and  so  vvoe-begone? 
The  squirrel's  granary  is  full, 
And  the  harvest's  done. 

I  see  a  lily  on  tliy  brow. 
With  anguish  moist  and  fever  dew; 
.■  And  p4J(hy  cheek  a  fading  rose 

Fast  wifhereth  loo. 

I  met  a  Lady  in  the  meads 

Full  beautiful,  a  fairy's  child  J 
Her  hiiir  was  long,  her  foot  was  light. 
And  her  eyes  were  wild. 

I  set  Her  on  my  pacing  steed, 

And  nothing- else  saw  all  day  long; 
For  sideways  would  she  lean,  and  sing 
A  fairy's  song. 

1  made  agarland  for  her  head. 

And  bracelets  too,  and  fragrant  zone; 
She  lobk'd  at  me  as  she  did  love. 
And  made  sweet  moan. 

She  found  me  root* of  relish  sw*ef. 

And  honey  wild,  and  manna  dew  f 
And  sure  in  language  strange  she  said/ 
I  love  thee  true. 

She  took  me  to  her  elfin  grot. 

And  there  she  paz'd  ffird -sighed  deep. 
And  there  I  shut  her  wild  sad  eyes — 
So  kiss'd  to  sleep. 

And  there  we  shimber'd  pn  the  moss. 

And  there  I  dream'd,  ah  woe  betide. 
The  latest  dream  I  ever  dream'd 
On  the  cold  hill  side. 

I  saw  pale  kings,  and  princes  too, 

Pale  warriors,  death-pale  were  (hey  all  ; 
Who  cried,  "  La  belle  Dame  sans  mercy 
Hath  thee  in  thrall!" 

I  saw  their  slarv'd  lips  in  the  gloom 
'/■•  With  horrid  warning  gaped  wide^ 

Ahd  I  awoke,  and  found  me  here 
■On  the  cold  hill  side. 

V  And  this  is  why  I  sojourn  here 

Alone  and  palely  loitering, 
Though  the  sedge  is  wither'd  from  the  lake. 
And  no  birds  sing. 

Catiarc. 


Orders  receh-ed  by  the  Nawsmen,  by  the  Booksellers,  and  by  the  Publisher,  Joseph  Appleyar<f.        r 
Printed  by  Joseiih  Appleyard,  No,  19,  Catheriri€-street,  Strand.— Price  9d,  '» 


THE    INDICATOR. 


There  he  arriving  round  about  doth  flic. 
And  takes  survey  with  busie  curious  eye: 
Now  this^  now  that,  he  tastetli  tenderly. 

'  Sl-KNSHR. 


No.  XXXII.—WEDNESDAY,  MAY  17th,   1820. 


RETROSPECTIVE  REVIEW— MEN  WEDDED  TO  BOOKS— THE  CONTEST 
BETWEEN  THE  NIGHTINGALE  AND  MUSICIAN. 

We  have  often  had  occasion  to  think  of  the  exclamation  of  that 
ingenious  saint,  who  upon  reading  a  fine  author,  cried  out  "  Pereant 
male  qui  ante  nos  nostra  dixeruntl" — "Deuce  take  those  who  have 
said  our  good  things  before  us  I" — Now,  without  mentioning  the  ex- 
Cendibility  (we  are  writing  in  high  spirits,  early  on  a  fine  morning, 
and  cannot  stop  to  find  a  better  word) — without  mentioning  the  ex- 
tendibility  of  this  judicious  imprecation  to  deeds,  as,  "  Deuce  take 
those  who  have  anticipated  our  exploits  ;''  or  to  possessions,  as  ''  Con- 
found those  fellows  that  ride  in  our  coaches  and  eat  our  asparagus  ;— 
we  cannot  help  thinking  the  phrase  particularly  applicable  to  those 
who  have  read  our  authors — ''  Plague  take  those  who  anticipate  our 
articles, — who  quote  our  highly-interesting  passages  out  of  old  books.'* 

Here  is  a  Retrospective  Review  set  up,  which  with  an  alarming  pre- 
cision of  prepositions  undertakes  to  make  "  Criticisms  upon,  Analyses 
of,  and  Extracts  from,  curious,  useful,  and  valuable  Books  in  all 
Languages,  that  have  been  published  from  the  Revival  of  Literature  to 
the  Commencement  of  the  Present  Century;" — And  what  is  very  in- 
considerate, it  performs  all  this,  and  more.  It's  criticisms  are  of  a 
very  uncritical  kind ;  deep  and  well-tempered.  It  can  afi'ord  to  let 
other  people  have  their  merits.  Proud  of  the  literature  of  past  ages, 
it  is  nevertheless  not  at  all  contemptuous  of  the  present ;  and  even  ia 
Teading  a  lecture  lo  modern  critics,  as  it  does  admirably  in  it's  Second 
Number  in  an  article  on  the  once  formidable  John  Dennis,  it  expos- 
tulates in  so  genial  and  informing  a  spirit,  that  he  must  be  a  very  far- 
gone  critical  old  woman  indeed,  who  does  not  feel  inclined  to  leave 
off  the  brandy-drinking  of  abuse, — the  pin-sticking  of  grudging  absur- 
dity. It  is  extremely  pleasant  to  see  it  travelling  in  this  way  over  so 
wide  a  range  of  literature,  warming  as  well  as  penetrating  as  it  goes, 
with  a  sunny  eye, — now  fetching  out  the  remotest  fields,  and  anon 
driving  the  shadows  before  it  and  falling  in  kindly  lustre  upon  our- 
selves. The  highest  compliment  that  we  can  pay  it,  ^or  indeed  any 
other  work,  is  to  say,  that  the  enthusiasm  is  young,  and  the  knowledge 
old  ; — a  rare,  a  wise,  and  a  delightful  combination. 

It  is  Uicky  for  us  that  we  happened  to  speak  of  this  work  in  another 
publication,  the  very  day  before  the  appearance  of  the  second  number; 
tor  the  latter  contained  a  very  kind  mention  of  the  little  wor.k  now 


250  THE  INDICATOR. 

before  the  feader ;  and  thus  our  present  notice  might  hare  been  laiil 
to  tlie  account  of  a  vanity,  which  however  gratified,  is  not  the  cause 
of  it.  The  value  of  praise  as  well  as  tebuke  does  indeed  depend  upon 
the  nature  of  the  persons  from  whom  it  comes;  and.  it  is  as  difficult 
not  to  be  delighted  with  panegyric  from  some,  as  it  is  easy  to  be  in- 
different to  it,  or  even  pained  by  it,  froni  Others*  But  when  we  con- 
fess our  pleasure  in  this  instance^  we  ean  say  with  equal  truth,  that 
all  our  feelings  and  hopes  being  identified  with  the  cause  of  what  we 
think  good  and  kind,  our  very  self-love  becomes  identified  with  it ;  and 
we  would  consent  to  undergo  the  horrible  moment  of  annihilation  and 
oblivion  the  next  instant,  could  vve  be  assured  that  the  world  would  be 
as  happy  as  we  were  un remembered.  And  yet  wliat  a  Yes '.'  would 
that  be ! 

But  to  get  from  under  the  imagination  of  this  crush  of  our  Jjeing, 
and  emerge  into  the  lightiiess  and  pleasurability  of  life,— it  was  very 
hard  of  the  Retrospective  Review,  that  while  it  praised  us,  it  should 
pick  our  intentional  pockets  of  an  extract  we  had  long  thought  of 
making  from  an  old  poet.  We  allude  to  the  poem  called  Music's  Duel 
from  Crashaw.  Here  the  feelings  expressed  at  the  head  of  our  paper 
come  over  as  again.  It  has  been  said  of  fond  students  that  they  were 
"  wedded  to  their  books.'*  We  have  even  heard  of  ladies  who  have 
been  jealous  of  an  over-seductive  duodecimo  ;  as  perhaps  they  might, 
if  every  literary  husband  or  lover  were  like  the  collegian  in  Chaucecj 
who  would  rather  have 

-At  his  bed's  head, 


A  twenty  books,  clothed  in  black  or  red. 
Of  Aristotle  and  his  pliilosophy, 
Than  robes  rich,  or  fiddle,  ©r  psaltry. 

And  yet  we  feel  that  we  could  very  well  like  them  too  at  the  bed's 
head,  without  at  all  diminishing  our  regard  for  what  should  be  at  the 
bed's  heart.  We  could  sleep  under  them  as  under  a  bower  of  imagi- 
nations. We  are  one  of  those  who  like  to  have  a  book  behind  one's 
pillow,  even  though  we  know  we  shall  not  touch  it,  It  is  like  having 
all  our  treasures  at  hand.  , 

But  if  people  are  to  be  wedded  to  their  books,  it  Is  hard  that  under 
our  present  moral  dispensations,  they  are  not  to  be  allowed  the  usual 
exclusive  privileges  of  marriage.  A  friend  thinks  no  more  of  borrow- 
ing a  book  now-a-days,  than  a  Roman  did  of  borrowing  a  man's  wife  ; 
and  what  is  worse,  we  are  so  far  gone  in  our  immoral  notions  on  this 
subject,  that  we  even  lend  it  as  easily  as  Cato  did  his  spouse.  Now 
what  a  happy  thing  ought  it  not  to  be  to  have  exclusive  possession  of  a 
book, — one's  Shakspeare  for  instance ;  for  the  finer  the  wedded  work, 
the  more  anxious  of  course  we  should  be,  that  it  should  give  nobody 
happiness  but  ourselves.  Think  of  the  pleasure  not  only  of  being  with 
it  in  general,  of  having  by  far  the  greater  part  of  it's  company,  but  of 
having  it  entirely  to  one's  self;  of  always  saying  internally,  "  It  is 
my  property  ;"  of  seeing  it  well-dressed  in  "  black  or  red,*'  purely  to 
please  one's  own  eyes  ;  of  «'ondering  how  any  fellow  could  be  so  im- 
pudent as  to  propos'j  borrowing  it  for  an  evening;  of  being  at  once 


THE  INDICATOR.  251 

proud  of  his  admiratiori,  and  pretty  certaiti  that  it  was  in  vaia  ;  of  the 
excitement  nevertheless  of  being  a  little  tineasy  whenever  we  saw  hiqi 
approach  it  too  nearly;  of  wishing  that  it  could  give  him  a  cutFof  the 
cheek  with  one  of  it's  beautiful  boards,  for  presuming  to  like  it's  beau- 
ties as  well  as  ourselves  •  of  liking  other  people's  books,  bat  not  at  all 
thinking  it  proper  that  they  should  like  our's  j  of  getting  perhaps  in- 
different to  it,  and  then  comforting  ourselves  with  the  reflection  tha^ 
others  are  not  so,  though  to  no  purpose ;  in  short,  of  all  the  mixe4 
transport  and  anxiety  to  which  the  exclusiveness  of  the  book-wedded 
state  would  be  liable ;  not  to  mention  the  impossibility  ef  other 
people's  haying  any  literary  offspring  from  our  fair  unique,  and  con- 
sequently of  the  danger  of  loving  any  compilations  but  our  own. 
Really  if  we  could  burn  all  other  copies  of  our  originals,  as  the  Romaqi 
Emperor  once  thought  of  destroying  Homer,  this  system  would  be 
worth  thinking  of.  If  we  had  a  good  library,  we  should  be  in  the 
situation  of  the  Turks  with  their  seraglios,  which  are  a  great  improve- 
ment upon  our  petty  exclusivenesses.  Nobody  could  then  touch  our 
Shakspeare,  our  Spenser,  our  Chaucer,  our  Greek  and  Italian  writers. 
People  might  say,  "  Those  are  the  walls  of  the  librarj'!"  and  "'sigh, 
and  look,  and  sigh  again  ;"  but  they  should  never  get  in.  No  Retro- 
spective r^ke  should  anticipate  our  privileges  of  quotation.  Our 
Mary  Woolstonecrafts  and  our  Madame  de  Staels,— ^no  one  should 
know  how  finely  they  were  lettered,-i-Twhat  soul  there  was  in  their  dis- 
ijuisitions.  We  once  had  a  glimpse  of  the  feelings,  which  people 
■would  have  on  these  occasions.  It  was  in  the  library  of  Trinity  Col- 
lege, Cambridge.  The  keeper  of  it  was  from  home  5  and  not  being 
able  to  get  a  sight  of  the  Manuscript  of  Milton's  Comus,  we  were 
obliged  tp  content  ourselves  with  looking  through  a  wire  work,  a  kind 
of  safe,  towards  the  shelf  on  which  it  reposed.  JIow  we  winked,  and 
yearned,  and  imagined  we  saw  a  corner  of  the  all-preqious  sheets,  to 
no  purpose !  The  feejings  were  not  very  pleasant,  it  is  true  5  but  thei> 
as  long  as  they  were  confined  to  otherSj  thpy  would  of  course  only 
add  to  our  satisfaction. 

But  to  «:ome  to  our  extmct  5  for  not  being  quite  recovered  yet  from 
our  late  ill-health,  we  mean  to  avail  ourselves  of  it  still.  It  is  re- 
piarkable,  as  the  Reviewer  has  oljserved,  for  "  a  wonderful  power 
over  the  resources  of  our  language."  The  original  is  in  the  Prolu- 
sions of  Strada,  where  it  is  put  into  the  mouth  of  the  celebrated  Cas- 
tiglione,  as  an  imitation  of  the  style  of  Claudian.  From  all  that  we 
recollect  of  that  florid  poet,  the  imitation,  to  say  the  least  of  it,  is 
quite  as  good  as  any  thing  in  himself,  Indeed,  as  a  description  of  the 
liiceties  pf  a  musical  performance,  we  remember  nothing  in  him  that 
pan  come  up  it.  But  what  will  astonish  the  reader,  in  E^dditiou 
to  the  exquisite  tact  with  which  Strada  is  rendered  by  the  translator, 
is  his  having  trebled  the  whole  description,  and  with  an  equal  minute- 
ness in  his  exuberance.  We  cannot  stop  'lO  enter  into  the  detail  of 
the  enjoyment,  as  we  would  ;  and  indeed  we  should  not  know  per- 
haps how  to  express  our  sense  of  it  but  by  repeating  bis  masterly 
niceties  about  the  "  clear  unwrinkled  song,"  the  "  warbling  doubt  of 


!852  THE  INDICATOR. 

dallying  sweetntSSj"  the  «||er-fcubbling  spring,"  the  kindling  of  the 
bird's 

■■ ■ i '♦  soft-voice 

"In  the  close  murmur  of  a  sparkling  noise," 

the  '*  quavering  poyness"  with  which  the  musician  "  tastes  the  strings," 
the  *' surges  of  swoln  rhapsodies,''  the  *'  full-mouthed  diapason  swal- 
lowing all  •"  and  in  short,  the  whole  "  pride,  pomp,  and  circum- 
istance"  of  masterly  playing,  from  it's  lordly  sweep  over  the  full  in- 
strument to  the  "  capering  cheerfulness"  of  a  guitar  accompaniment. 
The-  man  of  letters  will  admire  the  power  of  language ;  and  to  the 
musician  and  other  lovers  of  music  we  are  sure  we  are  affording  a  great 
treat.  Numbers  of  them  will  never  have  found  their  sensations  so 
well  analyzed  before.  Part  of  the  poetry,  it  is  true,  is  in  a  false  and 
overcharged  taste ;  but  in  general  the  exuberance  is  as  true  as  it  is 
surprising,  for  the  subject  is  exuberant  and  requires  it. 

We  should  observe,  before  the  concert  begins,  that  Castiglione  is 
represented  by  Strada  as  having  been  present  at  this  extraordinary 
duel  himself  ;  and  however  fabulous  this  may  seem,  there  is  a  letter 
extant  from  Bartolomeo  Ricci  to  Giambattista  Pigna,  cotemporaries  of 
Tasso,  in  which  he  says,  that  Antoniano,  a  celebrated  improvvisatore 
of  those  times,  playing  on  the  lute  after  ai  rural  dinner  which  the  wri- 
ter had  given  to  his  friends,  provoked  a  nightingale  to  contend  with 
him  in  the  same  manner.  Dr.  Black,  in  his  Life  of  Tasso,  by  way  of 
note  upon  this  letter,  quotes  a  passage  from  Sir  William  Jones, 
strongly  corroborating  such  stories;  and  indeed,  when  we  know  what 
parrots  and  other  birds  can  do,  especially  in  imitating  and  answering 
each  other,  and  hear  the  extravagant  reports  to  which  the  powers  of 
the  nightingale  have  given  rise,  such  as  the  story  of  an  actual  dialogue 
in  Bulfon,  we  can  easily  imagine  that  the  groundwork  of  the  relation 
may  not  be  a  mere  fable.  "  An  intelligent  Persian,"  says  Sir  William, 
"  declared  he  had  more  than  once  been  present,  when  a  celebrated  Lu- 
tanist,  surnamed  Bulbul  (the  nightingale),  was  playing  to  a  large 
company  in  a  grove  near  Schiraz,  where  he  distinctly  saw  the  nightin- 
gales trying  to  vie  with  the  musician;  sometimes  warbli»^g  on  the 
trees,  sometimes  fluttering  from  branch  to  branch,  as  if  (hey  wished 
lo  approach  the  instrument,  and  at  length  dropping  on  the  ground  in 
a  kind  of  ectasy,  from  which  they  were  soon  raised,  he  assured  me, 
by  a  change  in  the  mode." 

MUSIC'S  DUEL. 
Now  westward  Sol  bad  spent  the  richest  beams 
'  Of  noon!s  high  glory,  wlien  hard  by  the  streams 

Of  Tiber,  on  the  scene  of  a  green  plat,  ' 

Under  protection  of  an  oak,  there  sat 
.'  A  sweet  lute's-master :  in  whose  gentle  airs 

He  lost  the  day's  heat  and  his  own  hot  cares. 
Close  in  the  covert  of  the  leaves  there  stood 
A  nightingale,  come  from  the  neighbouring  wood; 
(The  sweet  inhabitants  of  each  glad  tree, 
Their  muse,  their  syren,  harmless  syren  she) 
There  Blood  she  list'ning,  and  did  euterlaiii 
The  niHsic'e  salt  report:  and  inould  the  same 


Tltt  INDICATOR.  255 

In  Iier  oVVn  murmurs,  that  whatever  ppioQd 

Hig  curious  fino;ers  lent,  her  voice  mnde  good  :' 

The  man  perceiv'd  his  rival  and  her  art, 

Dispos'd  lo  give  the  light-foot  lady  sport 

Awakes  hi*  lute,  and  'gainst  the  fight  to'coWia 

Informs  it,  in  a  sweet  pfieludium 

Of  closer  strains;  and  ere  the  war  begin, 

He  lightly  skirmishes  on  every  string, 

Charged  with  a  flying  touch  i  and  straightway  she 

Carves  out  her  dainty  voice  as  readily. 

Into  a  thousand  sweet  distinguish'd  tones, 

And  reckons  up  in  soft  divisions. 

Quick  volumes  of  idld  notes  ;  to  let  him  know 

By  that  shrill  taste,^he  could  do  something  too. 

His  nimble  hands  instinct  then  taught  each  string 
A  capring  cheerfulness,  and  made  them  siug 
To  their  own  dance  ;  now  negligently  rash 
He  throws  his  arm,  and  with  a  long  drawn  daslt 
Blends  all  together  ;  then  distincthy  trips 
From  this  to  thai ;  tlien  quick  returning  skips 
And  snatches  this  again,  and  pauses  tliere. 
She  measures  every  measure,  every  where 
Meets  art  with  art ;  sometimes,  as  if  in  doubt, 
Not  perfect  yet,  and  fearing  to  be  out. 
Trails  her  plain  ditty  in  one  long-spun  note, 
Through  the  sleek  passage  of  her  open  throat, 
A  clear  unwrinkled  song;  then  dot'-  she  point  it 
With  tender  accents,  and  saverely  joiHt  it 
By  sliort  diminutives,  that  being  rear*d 
In  controverting  warbles  evenly  shar'd*,- 
With  her  SKcet  self  she  wrangles.     He  amaz'd 
That  from  so  small  a  channel  should  be  rais'd 
The  torrent  of  a  voicej  whose  melody 
Could  melt  into  such  sweet  variety. 
Strains  higher  yet;  that  tickled  with  rare  art 
The  tattling  strings  (each  breathing  in  his  part) 
Most  kiii.ily  do  fall  out;  the  grumbling  base 
In  surly  groans  disdains  the  trebles  grace  ; 
The  high-perch'd  treble  chirps  at  this,  and  chides, 
Until  his  finger  (moderator)  hides 
And  closes  the  sweet  quarrel,  rousing  all 
Hoarse,  shrill,  at  once  ;  as  when  the  trumpets  call 
Hot  Mars  to  th'  harvest  of  death's  field,  and  woo 
Men's  hearts  into  their  hands  :  this  lesson  too 
She  gives  him  back;  her  supple  breast  thrills  out  i 

Sharp  airSy  and  staggers  in  a  warbling  doubt 
Of  dallying  sweetness,  hovers  o'er  her  skill. 
And  folds  in  wav'd  notes  with  a  trembling  bill 
The  pliant  series  of  her  slippery  song  ;  / 

Then  starts  she  suddenly  into  a  throng 
Of  short  thick  sobs,  whose  thundering  volleys  float, 
'And  roll  themselves  over  her  lubric  throat 
In  panting  murmurs,  stilCd  out  of  her  breast. 
That  ever-bubbling  spring,  the  sugared  nest 
Of  her  delicious  soul,  that  there  does  lie 

Bathing  in  streams  of  liquid  melody ;  , 

Music's  best  seed-plot,  where,  in  ripen'd  airsr, 
A  golden-headed  harvest  fairly  rears 

His  honey-dropping  tops,  plow'd  by  her  breath  ' 

Which  there  reciprocally  laboureth 
In  that  sweet  soil,  it  seems  a  holy  choir 
Founded  lo  th'  name  of  great  Apollo's  lyre, 


254  THE  INDICATOR. 

Whose  silver  roof  rings  wirii  the  sprightly  notes 

Of  sweep-lipp'd  angel-imps,  that  swill  their  throats 

In  cream  CI  morning  Helicon,  and  then 

Prefer  soft  anthems  to  the  ears  of  men, 

To  woo  them  from  tlieir  beds,  still  murmuring 

That  men  can  sleep  while  they  their  mattens  sing  : 

(Most  divine  service)  whose  so  early  lay    . 

Prevents  the  eye-lids  of  the  blushing  day ! 

There  you  might  hear  her  kindle  her  soft  voice 

In  the  close  murmur  of  a  sparkling  noise, 

And  lay  the  ground-woi-k  of  her  liopeful  song, 

Still  keeping  in  the  forward  stream,  so  long 

Till  a  sweet  whirlwind  (striving  to  gel  out) 

Heaves  her  soft  bosom,  wanders  round  about| 

And  makes  a  pretty  earthquake  in  her  breast, 

Till  the  fledg'd  notes  at  length  forsake  their  nest, 

Fluttering  in  wanton  shoals,  and  to  the  sky, 

Wing'd  with  their  own  wild  echoes,  prattling  fly. 

She  opes  the  floodgate,  and  lets  loose  a  tide 

Of  streaming  sweetness,  which  in  state  doth  ride 

On  the  wav'd  back  of  every  swelling  strain^ 

Kising  and  falling  in  a  pompous  train. 

And  while  she  thus  discharges  a  shrill  peal 

Of  flashing  airs;  she  gualijies  their  zeal 

With  the  cool  epode  of  a  graver  note, 

Thus  high,  thus  low,  as  if  her  i<ilver  throat 

Would  reacii  the  brazen  voice  of  war's  hoarse  bird } 

Her  little  soul  is  ravish'd:  and  so  pour'd 

Into  loose  ecstasies,  that  slie  is  plac'd 

Above  herself,  music's  enthusiast. 

Shame  now  and  anger  mix'd  a  double  stain 
In  the  musician's  face;  yet  once  again 
(Mistress)  I  come ;  now  reach  a  strain,  my  lute, 
Above  her  mock,  or  be  for  ever  mute. 
But  tune  a  song  of  victory  to  me ; 
As  to  thyself,  sing  thine  own  obsequy ; 
So  said,  his  hands  sprightly  asjire  he  flings, 
jind  with  a  quavering  coyness  tastes  the  strings. 
Thesweet-lip'd  sisters  musically  frighted. 
Singing  their  fears,  are  fearfully  delighted. 
Trembling  as  when  Apollo's  golden  hairs 
Are  fann'd  and  frizzled  in  the  wanton  airs 
Of  his  own  breath :  which  marVied  to  his  lyre 
Doth  tune  the  spheres,  and  make  heaven's  self  look  higher. 
From  this  to  that,  from  that  to  this  heflies^ 
Feels  music'' s  pulse  in  all  her  arteries. 
Caught  in  a  net  which  there  Apollo  spreads, 
His  fingers  struggle  with  the  vocal  threads, 
Followmg  those  little  rills,  he  sinks  into 
A  sea  of  Helicon ;  his  hand  does  go 
Those  parts  of  sweetness  which  with  nectar  drop. 
Softer  than  that  which  pants  in  Hebe's  cup. 
The  humourous  strings  expound  his  learned  touch 
By  various  glosses;  now  they  seem  togrutch. 
And  murmur  in  a  buzzing  din,  then  giiigle 
In  shrill  tongu'd  accents,  striving  to  be  single. 
Kvery  smootli  turn, -every  delicious  stroke 
Give  life  to  some  new  grace ;  thus  doth  h'  invoke 
Sweetness  by  all  her  names;  thus,  bravely  thus 
(Fraught  with  a  fury  so  harmonious) 
The  lute's  light  genius  now  does  proudly  rise, 
Ileav'd  on  the  surges  ofsmln  rhapiodies, 


tHE  INDICATOR.  "^^ 

Whose  flourish  (meleor-like)  dolh  curl  th«  air 
With  flash  of  high-born  fancies:  Iiere  and  there 
DHiicing  ill  lofty  measure?,  and  anon 
Creeps  on  the  seff  touch  of  a  tender  tone  : 
Whose  trembling  murmur i  melting  in  wild  airs 
Run  to  and  fro,  complaining  his  sweet  cares 
Because  those  precious  mysteries  that  dwell 
In  music's  ravisli'd  soul  he  dares  not  teilj 
But  whisper  to  liie  world  :  thus  do  they  varyj 
Each  string  his  uote^  as  if  they  meant  to  carry 
Their  master's  blest  soul  (snatch'd  out  at  his 'ears 
By  a  strong  ecstacy)  through  all  the  spheres  -' 

Of  music's  heaven;  and  seat  it  there  on  higli 
In  th'  empyreum  of  pure  harmony. 
At  length,  (after  so  long,  so  loud  a  strife 
Of  all  (he  strings,  still  breathing  tlie  best  life 
Of  blest  variety  attending  on 

His  fingers  fairest  revolution  ^ 

In  many  a  sweet  rise,  many  as  sweet  a  fall) 
A  full  mouth' d  diapason  swallows-all. 

This  done,  he  lists  what  she  would  say  to  thi?. 
And  she,  although  her  breath's  late  exercise 
Had  dealt  too  roughly  with  her  tender  throat, 
Yet  summons  all  her  sweet  powers  for  a  note. 
Alas!  in  vain  !  for  while  (sweet  soul)  she  tries 
To  measure  all  those  wild  diversities 
Ofchatt'ring  strings,  by  the  small  size  of  one  i 

Poor  simple  voice,  rais'd  in  a  natural  tone; 
She  fails,  and  failing,  grieves,  and  grieving  dies. 
She  dies :  and  leaves  her  life  the  victor's  prize, 
Falling  upon  his  lute;  O  fit  to  have 
(That  liv'd  so  sweetly)  dead,  so  sweet  a  grave  ! 

This  exquisite  story  has  had  another  relator  in  Ford  the  dramatist, 
and  according  to  a  great  authority,  a  finer  one.  The  passage  is  very 
beautiful  certainly,  especially  in  the  outset  about  Greece ;  and  if  the 
story  is  to  be  taken  as  a  sentiment,  it  must  be  allowed  to  surpass  the 
other ;  but  as  an  account  of  the  Duel  itself,  it  is  assuredly  as  different 
as  playing  is  from  no  playing.  Seritiment  howeTer  completes  every 
thing,  and  we  hope  our  readers  will  enjoy  with  us  the  concluding 
from  Ford  :— 

Menaphon.  Passing  from  Italy  to  Greece,  the  tales 
Which  poets  of  an  elder  lime  have  feign'd 
To  glorify  their  Tempe,  bred  in  me 
Desire  of  visiting  that  paradise. 
To  Tliessaly  I  came,  ai>d  living  private. 
Without  acquaintance  of  more  sweet  companions. 
Than  the  old  inmates  to  my  love,  my  thoughts, 
I  day  by  day  frequented  silent  groves, 
And  solitary  walks.     One  morning  early 
This  accident  encounter'd  me:  1  heard 
The  sweetest  and  most  ravishing  contention. 
That  art  and  nature  ever  were  at  strife  in, 

Amethus.  I  cannot  yet  conceive  what  you  infer 
By  art  and  nature. 

Men.  I  shall  soon  resolve  ye. 

A  sound  of  music  touch'd  mine  ears,  or  rather 
Indeed  entranc'd  my  soul ;  as  I  stole  nearer. 
Invited  by  the  melody,  I  saw 
This  youth,  this  fair-fac'd  youth,  upon  his  lute. 
With  strains  of  »trange  variety  and  harmony, 


2§fi  THE  INDICATOR. 

'  Proclaiming,  a«  it  seem'd,  so  boU]  a  chf>llenpp 
To  the  clear  choristers  of  the  woods,  the  birds. 
That,  as  tliey  ftock'd  about  him,  all  stood  silent, 
Wond'ring  at  w!iat  Uiey  heard.     I  wouder'd  loo. 

^Imet.  And  so  do  I ;  good,  on  \ 

Men.  A  nighttiafjale, 

Nature's  best  S'kill'd  musician,  undertakes 
Tli«  challenge,  and  fbr  ev'ry  several  strain 
The  well-shap'd  youth  could  touch,  she  sung  her  down  { 
He  could  not  run  division  with  more  art 
Upon  his  quaking  instrument,  than  Mhe, 
The  nightingale,  did  with  her  various  notes 
Reply  to.    FoiT  a  voice,  and  for  a  sound, 
Amethus,  'tis  much  easier  to  believe 
That  such  they  were,  than  hope  to  hear  again. 

jdmet.  How  did  the  rivals  part  ? 

Men.  You  term  tliem  rightly. 

For  they  were  rivals,  and  their  mistress  harmony. 
Seme  time  thus  spent,  the  young  man  grew  at  last 
Into  a  pretty  anger,  that  a  bird 
Whom  art  had  never  taught  cliffs,  moods,  or  notes» 
Should  vie  with  him  for  mastery,  whose  study 
Had  bu«ied  many  hours  to  pertecl  practice  : 
To  end  the  pontroversy,  in  a  rapture 
Upon  his  iOfStrument  he  plays  so  swiftly. 
So  many  voluntaries,  and  so  qnick. 
That  there  was  curiosity  and  cunning. 
Concord  in  discord,  lines  of  diff'ring  method 
Meeting  in  one  full  centre  of  delight, 

AmeU  Now  for  the  bird. 
Men.  The  bird,  ordain'd  to  be 

y  '  Music's  first  martyr,  strove  to  imitate 

These  several  sounds:  which,  when  her  warbling  throat 
Fail'd  in,  for  grief,  down  dropp'd  she  on  his  lute, 
And  brake  her  heart.     It  was  the  quaintest  sadneus, 
To  see  the  eonqueror  upon  her  hearse. 
To  weep  a  funeral  elegy  of  tears. 
That,  trust  me,  myAmethus,  I  could  chide 
Mine  own  unmanly  weakness,  that  made  me 
A  fellow-mourner  with  him. 
^         Amet.  .  I  believe  thee. 

Men.  He  look'd  upon  the  trophies  of  his  art. 
Then  sigh'd,  then  wip'd  his  eyes,  then^igh'd  and  crieif  J 
♦'  Alas,  poor  creature  !  I  will  soon  revenge 
/      This  cruelty  upon  the  author  of  it; 

Henceforth  this  lute,  guilty  of  innecent  blood. 
Shall  never  more  betray  a  harmless  peace 
To  an  untimely  end  :"  and  in  that  sorrow. 
As  he  was  pashing  it  against  a  tree, 
I  suddenly  stept  i|i. 


Ofd«rt  received  by  the  Newsirten,  by  the  Booksellers,  and  by  the  Publisher^  Josepli  ;tppleyaid. 
Printed  by  Joseph  Appleyard,  No,  19,  Catherine-street,  .Strand. Price  Sd. 


THE    INDICATOR. 


There  Ue  arriving  round  about  doth  die. 
And  takes  survev  with  busie  curious  eye: 
Now  this,  now  that,  he  tastetli  teuderly. 

SpBNSSIb 


ko.  XXXIII. —WEDNESDAY,  MAY  24th,   1820. 


OF    STICKS* 


Among  other  comparative  injuries  which  we  are  accustomed  to  do 
to  the  characters  of  things  animate  and  inanimate,  in  order  to  gratiff 
our  human  vanity, — such  as  calling  a  rascal  a  dog  (which  is  a  great 
tompliment),  and  saying  that  a  tyrant  makes  a  beast  of  himsejf  (which 
it  would  be  a  very  good  thing,  and  a  lift  in  the  world,  if  he  could),  is 
a  habit  in  which  some  persons  indulge  themselves,  of  calling  insipid 
things  and  persons  sticks.  Such  and  such  a  One  is  said  to  write  a 
stick ;  and  such  another  is  himself  called  a  stick  ;•— a  poor  sticky  a 
mere  stick)  a  stick  of  a  fellow* 

We  pTotest  against  this  injustice   done  to  those  genteel,  jauntyj" 
usefulj  and  once  flourishing  sons  of  a  good  old  stock.     Take,  for  in* 
stance,  a  common  cherry  stickj  which  is  one  of  the  favourite  sort, 
in  the  first  place,  it  is  a  very  pleasant  substance  to  look  at,  the 
grain  running  round  it  in  glossy  and  shadowy  rings.     Then  it  is  of 
primaeval  antiquity,  handed  down  from  scion  to  scion  through  the 
most  flourishing  of  genealogical  trees.     In   the  third  place^  it  is  of 
Eastern  origin ;  of  a  stock,  which  it  is  possible  may  have  furnished 
Haroun  Al  Raschid  with  a  dje reed,  or  Mahomet  with  a  camel-stick> 
or  Xenophon  in  his  famous  retreat  with  fences,  or  Xerxes  \iith  tent* 
pins,  or  Alexander  with  a  javelin,  or  Sardanapalus  with  tarts,  or  Solo* 
mon  with  a  simile  for  his  mistress's  lips,  or  Jacob  with  a  crook,  ot 
Methusalem   with  shadow,  or  Zoroaster  with  mathematical  instrut 
ments,  or  the  builders  of  Babel  with  scafifoiding.     Lastly,  how  do  yor 
know  but  that  you  may  have  eaten  cherries  ofi"  this  very  stick  j  for 
was  once  alive  with  sap,  and  rustling  with  foliage,  and  powdered  \% 
blossoms,  and  red  and  laughing  with  fruit.     Where  the  leathern  ffy^ 
now  hangs,  may  have  dangled  a  bunch  of  berries  j  and  instead  '  s*w 
brass  ferrel  poking  in  the  mud,  the  tip  was  gro^ipg  into  thera^ 
it'9  youngest  gre«n. 


«5| 


THE  INDICATOR. 


The  use  of  sticks  in  general  is  of  the  very  greatest  antlquify.     It  is 
impossible  to  conceive  a  state  of  society,  in  which  boughs  should  not 
be  plucked  from  trees  for  some  purpose  of  utility  or    amusement. 
Savages  use  clubs,  hunters  require  lances,  and  shepherds  their  crooks. 
Then    came   the    sceptre,  which    is   originally   nothing  but  a   staflF, 
or  a    lance,  or    a   crook,    distinguished  from    others.     The  Greek 
word  for  sceptre  signifies  also  a  walking-stick.     A  mace,  however 
plumped  up  and  disguised  with  gilding  and  a  heavy  crown,  is  only  the 
same  thing  in  the  hands  of  an  inferior  ruler  ;  and  so  are  all  other  sticks 
used  in  office,  from  the  baton  of  the  Grand  Constable  of  France  down 
J.O  the  tipstaff  of  a  constable  in  Bow-street.     As  the  shepherd's  dog  is 
the  origin  of  the  gentlest  whelp  that  lies  on  a  hearth-cushion,  and  of 
the  most  pompous  barker  that  jumps  about  a  pair  of  greys,  so  the 
merest  stick  used  by  a  modern  Arcadian,  when  he  is  driving  his  flock 
to  LeadenhalUmarket  with  a  piece  of  candle  in  his  hat  and  No.  554  on 
his  arm,  is  the  first  great  parent  and  original  of  all  authoritative  staves, 
fronx  the  beadle's  cane  wherewith  he  terrifies  charity-boys  who  eat 
buU's-ey^  in  church-time,  up  to  the  silver  mace  of  the  verger :  the 
wands  of  parishes  and  governors  ;  the  tasselled  staff,  wherewith  the 
Band-Major   so  loftily  picks  out  his  measured  way  before  the  musi- 
cians, and  which  he  holds  up  when  they  are  to  cease  ;  the  White  Staff 
of  the  Lord  Treasurer  ;  the  court-officer  emphatically  called  the  Lord 
Gold  Stick;  the  Bishop's  Crozier  (Pedum  Episcopale)  whereby  he  is 
supposed  to  pull  back  the  feet  of  his  straying  flock;  and  the  royal 
and  imperial  sceptre  aforesaid,  whose  holders,  formerly  called  Shep- 
herds, of  the  People  (no/^EVEs-  Atxojv^  were  seditiously  said  to  fleece  more 
than  to  protect.     The  Vaulting-Staff,  a  luxurious  instrument  of  exer- 
cise, must  have  been  used  in  times  immemorial  for  passing  streams  and 
rough  ground  with.     It  is  the  ancestor  of  the  staff  with  which  Pilgrims 
travelled.     The  Staff  and  Quarter-Staff  of  the  country  Robin  Hoods  is 
a  remnant  of  the  war-club.     So  is  the  Irish  Shilelah,  which  a  friend 
has  well  defined  to  be  "  a  stick  with  two  butt-ends."     The  originals 
of  all  these,  that  are  not  extant  in  our  own  country,  may  still  be  seen 
wherever  there  are  nations  uncivilized.    The  Negro  Prince,  who  asked 
our  countrymen  what  was  said  of  him  in  Europe,   was  surrounded  in 
state  with  a  parcel  of  ragged  fellows  with  shilelahs  over  their  shoul- 
ders,—Lord  Old  Sticks. 
^  But  sticks  have  been  great  favourites  with  civilized  as  well  as  un- 
civilized nations ;  only  the  former  have  used  them  more  for  help  and 
ornament.     The  Greeks  were  a  sceptropherous  people.     Homer  pro- 
bably used  a  walking-stick,  because  he  was  blind;  but  we  have  it  on 
authority  that  Socrates  did.     On  his  first  meeting  with  Xenophon, 
which  was  in  a  narrow  passage,  he  barred  up  the  way  with  his  stick, 
nd  asked  him  in  his  good-natured  manner,  where  provisions  were  to- 
yhad.    Xenophon  having  told  him,  he  asked  again,  if  he  knew  where 
jjj^e  and  wisdom  were  to  be  had  ;  and  this  reducing  the  young  man 
^j^  ion-plus,  he  said,  "  Follow  me,  and  learn  ;"   which  Xenophon 
»torv  ^  became  the  great  man  we  have  all  heard  of.     The  fatherly 
^    ■  Agesilaus,  who  Avas  caught  amusing  his  little  boy  with  riding 


THE  INDICATOR;  259 

on  a  stick,  and  asked  his  visitor  whether  he  was  a  father,  is  too  well 
known  for  repetition. 

There  is  an  illustrious  anecdote  connected  with  our  subject  in  Ro- 
man history.  The  highest  compliment,  which  his  countrymen  thought 
they  could  pay  to  the  first  Scipio  was  to  call  hira  a  walking-stick  ;  for 
such  is  the  signification  of  his  name.  It  was  given  him  for  the  filial 
zeal  with  which  he  used  to  help  his  old  father  about,  serving  his  de-* 
crepld  age  instead  of  a  staff.  But  the  Romans  were  not  remarkable 
for  sentiment.  What  we  hear  in  general  of  their  sticks,  is  the  thump- 
ings  which  servants  get  in  their  plays;  and  above  all,  the  famous  rods 
which  the  lictors  carried,  and  which  being  actual  sticks,  must  have 
inflicted  horrible  dull  bruises  and  malignant  stripes.  They  were  pretty- 
things,  it  must  be  confessed,  to  carry  before  the  chief  magistrate ;  just 
as  if  the  King  or  the  Lord  Chancellor  were  to  be  preceded  by  a 
Cttt-o'-nine-tails. 

Sticks  are  not  at  all  in  such  request  with  modern  times  as  they  were. 
Pormerly,  we  suspect,  most  of  the  poorer  ranks  in  England  used  to 
carry  them,  both  on  account  of  the  prevalence  of  manly  sports,  and 
for  security  in  travelling  :  for  before  the  invention  of  posts  and  mail- 
coaches,  a  trip  to  Marlowe  or  St.  Albans  was  a  thing  to  make  a  maa 
write  his  will.  As  they  came  to.  be  ornamented,  fashion  adopted 
them.  The  Cavaliers  of  Charles  the  First's  time  were  a  sticked  race^ 
as  well  as  the  apostolic  divines  and  puritans,  who  appear  to  have 
carried  staves  because  they  read  of  them  among  the  patriarchs, 
Charles  the  First,  when  at  his  trial,  held  out  his  stick  to  forbid  the 
Attorney-General's  proceeding.  There  is  an  interesting  little  story 
connected  with  a  stick,  which  is  related  of  Andrew  Mar  veil's  father, 
(worthy  of  such  a  son),  and  which  as  it  is  little  known,  we  will  re- 
peat; though  it  respects  the  man  more  than  the  machine.  Hp  had 
been  visited  by  a  young  lady,  who  in  spite  of  a  stormy  evening  per- 
sisted in  returning  across  the  Huraber,  because  her  family  Avould  be 
alarmed  at  her  absence.  The  old  gentleman,  high-hearted  and  chear- 
ful,  after  vainly. trying  to  dissuade  her  from  perils  which  he  under- 
stood better  than  she,  resolved  in  his  gallantry  to  bear  her  company. 
He  accordingly  walked  with  her  down  to  the  shore,  and  getting  into 
the  boat,  threw  his  stick  to  a  friend,  with  a  request,  in  a  lively  tone  of 
voice,  that  he  would  preserve  it  for  a  Jceepsake.  He  then  cried  out. 
merrily  "  Ho-hoy  for  Heaven!"  and  put  off  with  his  visitor.  They 
were  drowned. 

As  commerce  increased,  exotic  sticks  grew  In  request  from  the 
Indies.  Hence  the  Bamboo,  the  Whanghee,  the  Jambee  whioh  makes 
such  a  genteel  figure  under  Mr.  Lilly's  auspices  in  the  Tatler ;  and 
our  light  modern  cane,  which  the  Sunday  stroller  buys  at  sixpence 
a,  piece,  with  a  twist  of  it  at  the  end  for  a  handle.  The  physicians, 
ti!)  within  the  last  few  score  of  years,  retained  among  other  fopperies 
which  they  converted  into  gravities,  the  wig  and  gold-headed  cane. 
The  latter  had  been  an  indispensible  sign  royal  of  fashion^  and  was 
turned  to  infinite  purposes  of  accomplished  gesticulation.  One  of  the 
most  courtly  persofiages  in  the  Rape  of  the  Lock  is 


2fl0  THE  INDICATOR. 

SlfPlume,  of  amber  snufF-box  justly  vaio, 
And  the  nice  conduct  ota  clouded  cane. 

Sir  Richard  Steele,  as  we  have  before  noticed,  is  reproached  by  a  busy- 
body of  those  times  for  a  habit  of  jerking  his  stick  against  the  pave- 
inent  as  he  walked.  When  swords  were  abolished  by  Act  of  Parlia- 
ment, the  tavern-boys  took  to  pinking  each'  other,  as  injuriously  as 
they  could  well  manage,  with  their  walking-sticks.  Macklin  the 
player  was  tried  for  his  life  for  poking  a.  man's  eye  out  in  this  way. 
Perhaps  this  helped  to  bring  the  stick  into  disrepute,  for  the  use  of  it 
seems  to  have  declined •  more  "and  more,  till  it  is  now  confined  to  old 
men,  and  a  few  among  the  younger.  It  is  unsuitable  to  our  money- 
getting  mode  of  rushing  hither  and  thither.  Instead  of  pinking  a 
loan's  ribs  or  so,  or  thrusting  out  his  eye  from  an  excess  of  the  joirial, 
we  break  his  heart  with  a  bankruptcy. 

Canes  became  so  common  before  the. decline  of  the  use  of  sticks, 
thatwhenever  a  man  is  beaten  with  a  stick,  let  it  be  of  what  sort  it 
ihay,  it  is  still  common  to  say  that  he  has  had  "  a  caning."  Which 
reminds  us  of  an  anecdote  more  agreeable  than  surprising;  though 
the  patient  doubtless  thought  the  reverse.  A  gentleman,  who  was 
remarkable  for  the  amenity  of  his  manners,  accompanied  by  sometbing 
which  a  bully  might  certainly  think  he  might  presumfe  upon,  found  1 
himself  compelled  to  address  a  person  who  did  not  know  how  to 
**  translate  his  style,"  in  the  following  words,  which  were  all  delivered 
in  the  sweetest  tone  in  the  world  j  with  an  tLir  of  almost  hushing  genti- 
lity :— '^  Sirj — ^I  am  extremely  sorry— to  be  obliged  to  say,— ^that  you 
appear  to  have;  a  very  erroneous  notion  of  the  m£tnners  that  become 
your  situation  in  life; — and  I  am  compelled,  with  great  reluctance,  to 
add," — -(here  he  became  still  softer  and  more  delicate)  "  that  if  you 
do  not  think  fit,  upon  reflection,  to  alter  this  very  extraordinary  con- 
duct towards  a  gentleman,  I  shall  be  under  the  necessity  of -caning 

you."     The  other  treated  the  thing  as  a  joke  ;  and  to  the  delight  of 
the  bye-standers,  received  a  very  grave  drubbing. 

There  are  two  eminent  threats  connected  with  caning,  in  the  history 
of  Dr.  Johnson.  One  was  from  himself,  when  he  was  told  that'  Foote 
intended  to  mimic  him  on  the  stage.  He  replied,  that  if  "  the  dog" 
ventured  to  play  his  tricks  with  him,  he  would  step  out  of  the  stage- 
box,  chastise  him  before  the  audience,  and  then  throw  himself  upon 
their  candour  and  common  sympathy.  Foote  desisted,  as  he  had  good 
reason  to  do.  The  Doctor  would  have  read  him  a  stout  lesson,  and 
then  made  a  speech  to  the  audience  as  forcible ;  so  that  the  theatrical 
annals  have  to  regret,  that  the  subject  and  Foote's  shoulders  weTe  not 
afforded  him  to  expatiate  upon.  It  would  have  been  a  fine  involun- 
tary piece  of  acting,— the  part  of  Scipio  by  Dr.  Johnson. — The  other 
threat  was  against  the  Doctor  himself  from  Macpherson,  the  com- 
pounder of  Ossian.  It  was  for  denying  the  authenticity  of  that  work  ; 
a  provocatioTJ  tbe  more  annoying,  inasmuch  as  he  did  not  seem  duly 
•eiisible  of  it's  merits.  Johnson  replied  to  Macpherson's  letter  by  one 
of  contemptuous  brevity  and  pith;  aftd  contented  himself  with  carry- 
ing  about  a  large  stick,  with  which  he  intended  to  repel  Macpheraoa 


THE  INDICATOR.  261 

in  case  of  an  assault.  Had  tltej'  mef.  It  would  have  been  like  "  two 
tjlouds  over  the  Caspian  ;"  for  both  Avere  large-built  men. 

We  recollect  another  bacular  Johnsonian  anecdote.  When  he  was 
travelling  in  Scotland,  he  lost  a  huge  stick  of  his  in  the  little  tree-lesS 
island  of  Mull.  Boswell  told  him  he  would  recover  it ;  but  the  Doc- 
tor shook  his  head.  *'  No,  no,"  said  he  ;  "  let  any  body  in  Mull  get 
possession  of  it,  and  it  will  never  be  restored.  Consider,  Sir,  the  value 
of  such  a  piece  of  timber  here." 

The  most  venerable  sticks  now  surviving,  are  the  smooth  amber- 
coloured  canes  in  the  possession  of  old  ladies.  They  have  somei 
times  a  gold-head,  but  oftener  a  crook  of  ivory.  But  they  have  lat- 
terly been  much  displaced  by  light  umbrellas,  the  handles  of  which 
are  imitations  of  them  ;  and  these  are  gradually  retreating  before  the 
young  parasol,  especially  about  town.  The  old  ladies  lake  the  wings 
of  the  stage-coaches,  and  are  run  away  with  by  John  PuUien  in  a  style 
of  infinite  convenience.  The  other  ^sticks  in  use  are  for  the  most  part 
of  cherry,  oak,  and  crab,  and  seldom  adoi-hed  with  more  than  a  lea- 
thern tassel:  often  with  nothing.  'Bamboo  a:nd  other  canes  do  not 
abound  as  might  be  expected  from  biir  intercourse  with  India :  but 
commerce,  in  this  as  in  other  respects,  has  overshot  it's  mark.  People 
cannot  afford  to  use  sticks,  any  more  than  bees  could  in  their' hive?» 
Of  the  common  sabbatical  cane  we  have  already  spoken.'  There  is  a 
very  sufficing  little  manual,  equally  light  and  lissom,  yclept  an  ebony 
switch;  but  we  have  not  seen  it  often.  ''      '   '  ' 

-  That  sticks  however  are  not  to  be  despised  by  the  leisurely,  any  one 
who  has  known  what  it'is  to  want  words,  or  to  slice  off  the  head  of  a 
thistle,  will  allow.  The  utility  of  the  stick  seems  divisible  into  three 
heads  ;  first,  to  give  a  general  consciousness  of  power  ;  second,  which 
may  be  called  a'part  of  the  first,  to  help  the  demeanour;  and  third^ 
whichmay  be  called  a  part  of  the  second,  to  assist  a  man  over  the  gaps 
of  speech, — ^the  little  aukward  intervals,  called  want  of  ideas. 

Deprive-a  man  of  his  stick,  vvho  is  accustomed  to  carry  one,  and 
with  what  a  diminished  sense  of  vigour'and  gracefulness  he  issues  out 
of  his  house!'  -Wanting  his  stick,  he  wants  himSelf.  His  self-posses- 
sion,-like  Acres's  on  the  duel-ground,  has  gone  out  of  his  fingers' 
ends.  But  restore  it  him,  and  ho\V  he  resu'mes  his  etiergy !  If  a  com- 
mon walking-stick,  he  cherishes  the  top  of  it  with  his 'fingers,  putting 
them  out  and  back  again  with  a  fresh  desire  to  fe'el  it  in  his  palm! 
How  he  strikes  it  against  the  ground,  and  feels  power  come  back  to 
his  arm!  How  he  makes  the  pavement  ring  with'  the  ferrel,  if  in  at 
street;  or  decapitates  the  downy  thistles  aforesaid,  if  in  a  field! 
Then  if  it  be' a  switch,  how  firmly  he  jerks  his  step  at  tlie  first  infliction 
of  it  on  the  air!  How' he  quivers  the  point  of  it  as  he  giles,  holding 
the  handle  with  a  strait-dropped  arm  and  a  tight  grasp!  Hoav  his  foot 
keeps  time  to  the  switches!  How  the  passengers  think  he  is  going  to 
ride,  whether  he  is  or  not !  How  he  twigs  the  luckless  pieces  of  lilac 
or  other  shrubs,  that  peep  out  of  a  garden  railing  !  And  if  a  sneak- 
ing-looking dog  is  coining  by,  how  he  longs  to  exercise  his  dt^spotism 
and  his  moral  s^ense  at  once,  by  giving  him  an  invigorating  twinge  ! 


262  THE  INDICATOR. 

But  what  would  certain  men  of  address  do  without  their  cane  or 
switch  ?  There  is  an  undoubted  Rhabdosophy,  Sceptrosophy,  or  Wis- 
dom of  the  Stick,  besides  the  famous  Divining  Rod  with  which  people 
used  to  discover  treasures  and  fountains.  It  supplies  a  man  with  in- 
audible remarks,  and  an  inexpressible  njimber  of  graces.  Sometimes, 
breathing  between  his  teeth,  he  will  twirl  the  end  of  it  upon  his 
stretched-out  toe  ;  and  this  means,  that  he  has  an  infinite  number  of 
easy  and  powerful  things  to  say,  if  he  had  a  mind.  Sometimes,  he 
holds  it  upright  between  his  knees,  and  tattoos  it  against  his  teeth  or 
under  lip;  which  implies,  that  he  meditates  coolly.  On  other  occa- 
sions, he  switches  the  side  of  his  boot  with  it,  which  announces  jaunti- 
ness  in  general,-  Lastly,  if  he  has  not  a  bon-mot  ready  in  answer  to 
one,  he  has  only  to  thrust  his  stick  at  your  ribs,  and  say  "  Ah !  you 
rogue'.''  which  sets>,him  above  you  in  an  instant,  as  a  sort  of  patro- 
nizing wit,  who  can  dispense  with  the  necessitiug  of  joking. 

At  the  same  time,  to  give  it  it's  due  zest  in  life,  a  slick  has  it's  incon- 
yeniences.  If  you  have  yellow  gloves  on,  and  drop  it  in  the  mud,  a 
too  hasty  recovery  is  aukward.  To  have  it  slick  between  the  stones' 
of  a  pavement,  is  not  pleasant ;  especially  if  it  snap  the  ferrel  off  5  or 
more  especially  if  an  old  gentleman  or  lady  is  coming  behind  you,  and 
after  making  them  start  back  Avith  winking  eyes,  it  threatens  to  trip 
them  up.  To  lose  the  ferrel  on  a  country  road,  renders  the  end  liable  ' 
to  the  growth  of  a  sordid  brush;  which,  not  Ij^iving  a  knife  with  you, 
or  a  shop  in  which  to  borrow  one,  goes  pounding  the  wet  up  against 
your  legs.  In  a  crowded  street,  you  may  have  tbe  stick  driven  into 
a  large  pane  of  glass;  upon  which  an  unthinking  tradesman,  utterly, 
indifferent  to  ^  chain  of  events,  issues  forth  and  demands  twelve  shil- 
lings and  sixpence.  But  perhaps  we  have  been  anticipated  on  these 
points  by  that  useful  regulator  of  the  philosophy  of  every-day  mat^ 
ters,  who  wrote  a  treatise  entitled  the  Miseries  of  Human  Life.  We 
shall  only  add,  that  the  stick  is  never  more  in  the  way,  than  when 
you  meet  two  ladies,  your  friends,  whose  arms  you  are  equally  bound  ' 
and  beatified  to  take.  It  cannot  possibly  be  held  in  the  usual  way, 
to  say  nothing  of  it's  going  against  the  gown  or  pelisse:  and  to  carry  it 
over  the  shoulder,  endangers  veils  and  bonnets,  besides  rendering  you 
liable  to  the  gallant  reproaches  of  the  unreflecting;  who  thinking  you 
must  have  w?,lked  with  the  ladies  from  all  eternity,  instead  of  the 
next  street,  ask  you  whether  you  could  not  leave  your  stick  at  home 
even  for  two.  But  see,  how  situations  the  most  perplexing  to  an  un- 
reflecting good-Mill,  may  change  their  character  before  a  spirit  truly 
enlightened  by  the  smiles  on  each  side  of  him.  Now  is  the  time,  if  the 
fortunate  Sceptrosopher  wishes  to  be  thought  well  of  in  a  fair  bosom. 
He  throws  away  the  stick.  The  lady  smiles  and  deprecates,  and 
thinks  how  generously  he  could  protect  her  without  a  stick. 

It  was  thus  that  Sir  Walter  Raleigh,  when  he  was  an   aspirant  at  . 
Elizabeth's  court  at  Green v/ich,  attending  her  one  day  on  a  walk,  in 
company  with  other  fine  spirits  of  that  age,  and  coming  upon  a  plashy 
«lrip  of  ground  which  put  her  Majesty's  princely  foot  to  a  non-plus, 
tto  sooner  saw   her  dilemma,  than  he  took  off  a  gallant  vclvet-clouk. 


THE  INDICATOR.  253 

wTiichhe  had  about  him,  and  throwing  it  across  the  mud  and  d'rt, 
made  such  a  passage  for  her  to  go  over,  as  her  royal  womanhood  never 
forgot. 


COUNTRY  LITTLE  KNOWN. 

We  have  to  inform  the  public  of  a  remarkable  discovery,  which, 
though  partially  disclosed  by  former  travellers,  has  Ftill  remained,  for 
the  most  part,  a  strange  secret.  It  is  this  ; — that  there  is  actually,  at 
this  present  moment,  and  in  this  our  own  beautiful  country  of  Great 
Britain,  a  large  tract  of  territory,  which  to  nine  hundred  and  ninety- 
nine  thousandths  of  our  beloved  countrymen  is  as  much  an  undisco- 
vered land  as  the  other  end  of  New  South  Wales,  or  the  Pole  which 
they  have  gone  to  find  out.  We  have  read  of  places  in  romance,  which 
were  more  shut  out  by  magic  from  people's  eyes,  though  close  to  them, 
than  if  a  fifty-foot  wall  encircled  them.  It  would  seem  as  if  some 
such  supernatural  prohibition  existed  with  regard  to  the  land  in  ques- 
tion ;  for  the  extremities  of  it  reach  to  within  a  short  distance  from 
the  Metropolis,  which  it  surrounds  on  all  sides  ;  nay,  w^e  have  heard, 
of  persons  riding  through  it,  without  seeing  any  thing  but  a  sign-post 
or  some  corn  ;  and  yet  it  is  so  beautiful,  that  is  called  emphatically 
"  Th«  Country." 

It  abounds  in  the  finest  natural  productions.  The  more  majestic 
parts  of  it  are  at  a  distance  ;  but  the  zealous  explorer  may  come  upon 
it's  gentler  beauties  in  an  incredibly  short  time.  It's  pastures,  and 
cattle  are  admirable.  Deer  are  to  be  met  with  in  the  course  of  half  a 
day's  journey  ;  and  the  traveller  is  accompanied,  wherever  he  goes, 
with  the  music  of  singing  birds.  Immediately  towards  the  south  is' 
a  noble  river,  which  brings  you  to  an  upland  of  the  most  luxuriant 
description,  looking  in  the  water  like  a  rich-haired  beauty  in  her 
glass:  yet  the  place  is  in  general  solitary.  Towards  the  north,  at  a. 
less  distance,  are  some  other  hilly  spots  of  ground,  which  partake 
more  of  the  rudely  romantic,  running  however  into  scenes  of  the  like 
sylvan  elegance  :  and  yet  these  are  still  more  solitary.  The  inhabi- 
tants of  these  lands,  called  the  Country-People,  seem,  in  truth,  pretty 
nearlyas  blind  to  their  merits  as  those  who  never  see  them  ;  but  their  per- 
ceptions will  doubtless  increase,  in  proporrion  as  their  polished  neigh- 
bours set  the  example.  It  should  be  said  for  them,  that  some  causes, 
with  whicii  we  have  nothing  to  do  in  this  place,  have  rendered  theui 
duller  to  such  impressions  than  they  appear  to  have  been  a  century  or 
two  ago  ;  but  we  repeat,  that  they  will  not  live  in  such  scenes  to  no 
purpose,  if  those  who  know  better,  take  an  interest  in  their  im- 
provement. Their  children  have  an  instinct  that  is  wiser,  till  domes- 
tic cares  do  it  away.  They  may  be  seen  in  the  fields  and  green  lanes, 
with  their  curly  locks  and  brown  faces,  gathering  the  flowers  which 
abound  there,  and  the  names  of  winch  are  as  pretty  as  the  shapcsand 


264  •  THE  INDICATOR.' 

colours.  ..  Thf?y  are  called  wild  roses,  prhntoses,  vioJets,.  the -rose  earn-, 
piqr;,  germander,  stellana,  wild  anemone,  bird's-eye,  daisies  and  butter- 
cups, lady-smocks,  ground-ivy.  hare-bells  or  blue-Tjellsj'wake-robiiij 
lillies'of  the  valky,  &;c.  &c.  Tke  trees  are  oaks,  elms,  birches,  ash, 
poplar,  willow,  wild^cherry,  the  flowering  may-bush,  &c.  «&:c.  all,  in 
short,  that  we  doat  upon  in- pictures,  and  wish  that  we  had  about  u» 
■when  it  is  hot  in  Cheapside  and  Bond-slrret.  It  is  perfectly  trans- 
],orting,  in  fine  weather,,  like  the  present  for  instante,  to  lounge  un- 
der the  hedge-row  elms  in  one  of  these  sylvan  places,  and  see  the  light 
sinok.e  of  the  cottages^fuming  up  .among  the  green  trees,  the  caUle 
grazing  or  lying  about  with  a  heavy  placidity  accordant  to  the  time 
and  scene,  "  pdinted  jays"  glancing  about  the  glens,  the  gentle  hills 
Sloping  down  into  water,  the  winding  embowered  lanes,  the  leafy  and 
flowery  banks,  the  green  oaks  against  the  blue  sky,  their  ivied 
trunks,  the  silver-bodied  and  young-haired  birches,  and  the  mossy 
grass  treble-carpeted  after  the  vernal  rains..  TfJinsporting  is  it  to  see 
ail  this  ;  and  transporting  to  hear  the  linnets,  thrushes,  and  black- 
birds,, the  grave  gladness  of  the  bee,  and  the  stock-doye  "  brooding 
over  her  bvtn  sweet  voice/',  And  more  transporting  than  all  is  it  to 
hd  in  such  places  with  a  friehd  that  feels  like  ourselves,  in  whose 
heart  and  eyes  (especially  if  they  have  fair  lids),  we  may  see  all  out 
own  hajipiness  .doubled,  as  the  landscape  itself  is  reflected  in  th§(. 
waters. 


TO  CORRESPONI>ENTS.  :. 

^^      . • :  ,i'  :.  .  .-1     .:■:..■      ...  ■    ~^-  :'  -  .    ■'  .,'d' 

jrU  informed  that  it  is  intended  to  divide  the  Indicator  into  Volumjes  }  for  Whiew- 
p\irpose  a  Tiile-page  will  be  ready  Tor  delivery  by  tlie  close  of  the  Fiftieth  Numb«|^^ 
or  thereabouts.  /.. 

S.  L.  is  under  eonsidera(ion.  ,        "  .^ 

A  Correspondent  informs  us  that  the  Latin  word  for  Daisy,  Bellis,  is  of  Greefc 
origin;  to  which  it  is  traced  in  some  old  works.  We  trust  we  have  takeu  his9 
vulh  us  of  lute,  in  our  May-weatber  enjoyments. 


Orders  received  by  the  Newinien,  by  the  Booksellers,  and  by^e  Publisher,  Joseph  Appr«y»r*r 
Priuttdby  Joseph  Appleyard,  No.  19,  Catherine-street,  Strand,— —Price  «<U 


THE    INDICATOR. 


There  he  arriving  round  about  doth  ffic. 
And  takes  survey  with  busie  curious  eyes 
Now  this,  now  that,  he  tasteth  teiiderly. 

Sfbnsxr* 


No.  XXXIV.— WEDNESDAY,  MAY  31st,   1820. 


OF  THE  SIGHT  OF  SHOPS. 


TaouctH  we  are  such  lovers  of  the  country,  we  can  admire  London 
in  some  points  of  view;  and  among  others,  for  the  entertainment  {o 
be  derived  from  it's  shops.  Their  variety  and  brilliancy  can  hardly 
fail  of  attracting  the  most  sluggish  attention;  and  besides  reasons  of 
this  kind,  we  can  never  look  at  some  of  them  without  thinking  of  the 
gallant  figure  they  make  in  the  Arabian  Nights,  with  their  Bazaars 
and  Bezesteins ;  where  the  most  beautiful  of  unknowns  goes  shopping 
in  a  veil,  and  the  most  graceful  of  drapers  is  taken  blindfold  to  see 
her.  He  goes,  too  smitten  at  heart  to  think  of  the  danger  of  his  head  ; 
and  finds  her  seated  among  her  slaves,  (exquisite  themselves,  only  very 
inferior),  upon  which  she  encourages  him  to  sit  near  her,  and  lutes  are 
played;  upon  which  he  sighs,  and  cannot  help  looking  tenderly; 
upon  which  she  claps  her  hands,  and  a  charming  collation  is  brought 
in;  upon  which  they  eat,  but  not  much.  A  dance,  ensues,  and  the 
ocular  sympathy  is  growing  tenderer,  when  an  impossible  old  woman 
appears,  and  says  that  the  Sultan  is  coming.  Alas !  How  often  have 
we  been  waked  up,  in  the  person  of  the  young  draper  or  jeweller,  by 
that  ancient  objection !  How  have  we  received  the  lady  in  her  veil, 
through  which  we  saw  nothing  but  her  dark  eyes  and  rosy  cheeks  ! 
How  have  we  sat  cross-legged  on  cushions,  hearing  or  handling  the 
lute,  whose  sounds  faded  away  like  our  enamoured  eyes  !  How  often 
have  we  not  lost  our  hearts  and  left-hands,  like  one  of  the  Calenders  ? 
Or  an  eye,  like  another?  Or  a  head;  and  resumed  it  at  the  end  of 
the  story  ?  Or  slept  (no,  not  sl<pt)  in  the  Sultan's  garden  at  Schiraz 
with  the  Fair  Persian  ? 

But  to  return  (as  well  as  such  enamoured  persons  can)  to  our 
shops.— We  prefer  the  country  a  million  times  over  for  walking  In 
generally,  especially  if  we  have  the  friends  in  it  that  enjoy  it  as. well ; 
but  there  are  seasons  when  the  very  streets  may  vie  with  it,    If  you 


266       -  THE  INDICATOR. 

have  been  solitary,  for  instance,  for  a  long  time,  it  is  pleasant  to  get 
among  your  fellow-creatures  again,  even  to  be  jostled  and  elbowed. 
If  you  live  in  town,  and  the  Aveather  is  showery,  you  may  get  out  in 
the  intervals  of  rain,  and  find  a  quickly  dried  pavement  and  a  set  of 
brilliant  shops  very  pleasant.  Nay,  we  have  known  days,  even  in 
spring,  when  a  street  may  out-do  the  finest  aspects  of  the  country  ;  but 
then  it  is  only  when  the  ladies  are  abroad,  and  there  happens  to  be  a 
run  of  agreeable  faces  that  day.  For  whether  it  is  fancy  or  not,  or 
■whether  certain  days  do  not  rather  bring  out  certain  people,  it  is  a 
common  remark,  that  one  morning  you  shall  meet  a  succession  of  good 
looks,  and  another  encounter  none  but  the  reverse.  We  do  net 
merely  speak  of  handsome  faces ;  but  of  those  which  are  charming,  or 
otherwise,  whatever  be  the  cause.  We  suppose  the  money-takers  are 
all  abroad  one  day,  and  the  heart-takers  the  other. 

It  is  to  be  observed,  that  we  are  not  speaking  of  utility  in  this  article, 
except  indeed  of  the  great  utility  of  agreeableness.  A  candid  leather- 
cutter,  therefore  will  pardon  us,  if  we  do  not  find  any  thing  very  at- 
tractive in'his  premises.  So  wilL  his  friend  the  shoemaker,  who  is 
bound  to  like  us  rural  pedestrians.  A  stationer '  too,  on  obvious  ac- 
counts, will  excuse  us  for  thinking  his  concern  a  very  dull  and  bald- 
headed  business.  We  cannot  bear^he  horribly  neat  monotony  of  his 
shelves,  with  their  loads  of  virgin  paper,  their  slates  and  slate-pencils 
that  get  one's  teeth  on  edge,  their  pocket-books  (with  the  exception  of 
the  Literary  Pocket-Book),  and  above  all,  their  detestable  ruled  ac- 
count-books, which  at  once  remind  one  of  the  necessity  of  writing, 
and  of  the  impossibility  of  writing  any  thing  pleasant  on  such  pages. 
The  only  agreeable  thing,  in  a  stationer's  shop,  when  it  has  it,  is  the 
ornamental  work,- the  card-racks,  hand-screens,  &c.  which  remind  us 
of  the  fair  morning  fingers  that  paste  and  gild  such  things,  and  surprise 
their  ^aunts  with  presents  of  flowery  boxes.  But  we  grieve  to  add, 
that  the  prints  which  the  stationers  furnish  for  such  elegancies,  are  not 
in  the  very  highest  taste.  They  are  apt  to  deviate  too  scrupulously 
from  the  originals.  Their  well-known  heads  become  too  anonymous. 
Their  young  ladies  have  casts  in  the  eyes,  a  little  too  much  on  one 
side  even  for  the  sidelong  divinities  of  Mr.  Harlowe. 

Stationer  ((o  himself).  I'll  not  sell  this  fellow's  Indicator. 
Inbicator.  Yes,  but  you  will. 
Stat.  Why  should  I  ?   Not,  I  hope,  for  a  paltry-*— 
Indic.  (interrupting  him).    Oh  no,  not  for  a  paltry  profit,   as  you 
say  ;  but  because  you  are  a  man  of  taste  and  impartiality.     My  obser- 
vations apply  generally  to  the  stationers*  shops ;  but,  of  course,,  not 
to  all. 

All  the  Stationers  (severally).  'Tis  undoubtedly  a  clever  thing; — 
a  very  clever,  and  impartial  little  puMication.  The  profit  upon  it,  as 
you  say,  is — not  prodigious ;  but  the  price  is  humble.  Besides,  my 
wife  likes  it.  ,  . 

Indic  Does  she  indeed  ?  Then  you  must  alk>w  me  to  say  that  I 
cannot  help  liking  her.  And  this  reminds  me  of  a  penitent  observa- 
tion I  have  to  make  j  which  is,  that  the  letter-paper  in  your  shop  forma 


•rilE  INDICATOR.  267 

a  very  delightful  subject  of  reflection  :— not  the  <;ommon  letter-paper, 
you  rogue  ;  but  the  love-letter, — the  pretty  little  smooth  delicate  hot- 
pressed  gilt-edged  flOwer-bordered  paper,  the  only  fit  ground-work 
for  a  crow-quill,  fair  fingers,  and  golden  sand.  I  suspect,  Mr.  Sta- 
tioner, that  your  shop  has.  as  touching  memories  connected  Avith  it, 
after  all,  as  any  in  London. 

Stat.  Why,  I  should  think  perhaps  it  had,  Sir.     You'll  excuse.  Sir, 
that  little  haste  of  mine  just  now  ? 

Indic.  Oh,  by  all  means  :  and  you  must  excuse  mine;  for  I  have 
many  shops  to  call  at.  My  compliments,  if  you  please,  to  your 
wife.  By  the  bye,  you  ought  to  know,  if  you  happen  not  to  know  it 
already,  that  it  was  for  such  paper  as  that  which  I  have  been  mention- 
ing that  Rousseau  describes  himself  as  writing  the  two  first  books  of 
Ms  Heloise,  in  a  state  of  unspeakable  enjoyment.  The  paper  was  of 
the  finest  gilt;  the  sand,  to  dry  the  ink,  azure  and  silver;  and  he  had 
blue  ribbon  to  stitch  the  sheets  together;  "  thinking,"  he  says, 
"  nothing  too  gallant,  nothing  too  darlingly  delicate,  for  the  charming 
girls,  whom  I  was  doating  upon  like  another  Pygmalion*."  This  was 
in  the  little  sylvan  island  of  Montmorency  ;  with  nolhing^  but  silence 
about  him ;  and  the  lady,  who  had  given  him  his  Hermitage,  sending 
him  billets,  and  portraits,  and  flannel  nnder-petticoats. 
Stat.  Flannel  under-petticoats  !  ■ 

Indic.  Yes,  to  make  under-waistcoats.     It  was  winter  time+. 
But  there  love-matters  are  again  interfering  with"  the  shop.     Adieu, 
vMr.  Stationer.     We  must  now  shock  you,  though. still,  we  trust,  not 
unpardonably,  by  objecting  to  yonr  neighbour  the  hatter.     We  ri^ally 
-can  see  nothing  in  a  hatter's  shop^  but  the  hats;  and  the  reader  is  ac- 
quainted with  our  pique  against  them.     The  beaver  is  a  curious  ani- 

*  "  Content  d'avoir  grossierement  esquiss^  mon  plan,  je  revins  aux  situations  de 
detail  que  j'avois  tracees,  et  de  I'arrangemenl  que  le  jeur  donnai  resulterent  les 
deux  premieres  parties  de  la  Julie,  que  je  (is  et  mis  an  net  durant  eet  hiver  avec  un 
plaisir  inexprimable,  employant  pour  cela  le  plus  beau  papier  dore,  de  la  poudre 
d  azur  et  d'argent  pour  «echer  I'ecriture,  de  la  nompareille  bleue  coudrer  mes  ealiiers ; 
enfin  ne  trouvant  rieiid'asser  galant,  rien  d'assez  mirnon,  pour  lesdiarmantes  filles 
dontje  raffolois  comme  un  autre  Pigmalion."  Compare  these  concluding  words, 
wliicli  we  did  not  remember  at  the  time,  with  the  introductory  observations  on  the 
article  headed  Rousseau's  Pygmalion. 

+  This  sort  of  present  touched  our  Genevese  philosopher  more  than  the  Hcrmi* 
tage  itself,  or  indeed,  according  to  his  own  account,  more  than  any  thing  which  the 
lady  in  question  ever  sent  him  ;  and  she  had  all  a  lover's  tendency  to  give.     "  Un 


je  fisse  uu  gilet.  Ce  soin,  plus  qn'amical,  me  parni  si  tendre,  comme  si  elle  se  fut 
depouiliee  pour  me  vfitir,  que  dans  raon^motion,  je  baisai  vingt  fois  en  pleurant  le 
billet  et  jupont  Therese  me  croyoit  devenn  fou.    II  est  singulier  que  de  toutes  les 

marques  d'atnitie   que  Madame  D' y  m'a  prodiguees,   aueiin   ne  m'a  jamais 

touche  comme  cellela,  et  que  m^me  depuis  notre  rupture,  je  n'y  a.i  jamais  repensc 
sans  atteivdrissement.  J'ai  long-temps  conserve  son  petit  billet,  etje  I'aurois en- 
core, s'il  ii'eut  eu  le  sort  de  mes  autres  billets  du  nn-me  temps."  What  should  have 
hindered  him,  even  according  to  his  own  story,  fioin  keeping  both  the  billet  and 
the  lady  s  regards?  But  liis  ciqiiicious  tempcruiiieiit  was  altia^'s  leading  him  to 
play  the  fool,  with  those  whom  he  had  enchanted  by  being  tiie  genius. 


268  THE  INDICATOR. 

mal ;  but  not  entertaining  enough,  of  itself,  to  make  a  window  full  of 
those  very  rc'quisite  nuisances  an  agreeable  spectacle.     It  is  true,  a 
hatter,  like  some  other  tradesmen,  may  be  pleasanter  himself,  by  rea- 
son of  the  adversity  of  his  situation.     We  cannot  say  more  for  the 
cruel-shop  next  door, — a  name  justly  provocative  of  a  pun.     It  is  cus- 
tomary however  to  have  sign-paintings  of  Adam  and  Eve  at  these 
places;  which  is  some  relief  to  the  monotony  of  the  windows;  only 
they  remind,  us  but  too  well  of  these  cruel  necessities  to  which  they 
brought  us.    The  baker's  next  ensuing  is  a  very  dull  shop ;  much  in- 
ferior to  the  gingerbread  baker's,  whose  parliament  we  used  to  munch 
at  school,  wiping  away  the  crumbs  as  they  fell  upon  our  Mysteries  of 
Udolpho.     The  tailor's  makes  one  as  melancholy  to  look  at  it,  as  the 
sedentary  persons  within.   The  hosier's  is  worse;  particularly  if  it  has 
a  Golden  Leg  over  it;  for  that  precious  limb  is  certainly  not  symboH- 
eal  of  the  weaver's.     The  windows,  half  board  and  half  dusty  glass, 
which  abound  in'  the  city,  can  scarcely  be  turned  to  a  purpose  of 
amusement,  even  by  the  most  attic  of  dry  salters.     We  own  we  have 
half  a  longing  to  break  them,  and  let  in  the  light  of  nature  upon  their 
recesses  ;  whether  they  l)elong  tq  those  more  piquant  gentlemen,  or  to 
bankers,  or  any  other  high  and  wholesale  personages.     A  light  in  onfe 
of  these  windows  at  nine  o'clock  is,  to  us,  one  of  the  very  dismallest 
reflections  on  humanity.     We  wish  we  could  say  something  for  a  tal- 
low-chandler's, because  every  body  abuses  it :    but  we  canhot.     It 
must  bear  it's  fate  like  the  man.     A  good  deal  might  be  said  in  behalf 
of  candle-light;  but  in  passing  from  shop  to   shop,  thie  variety  is  so 
great,  that  the  imagination  has  not  time  to  dwell  on  any  one  in  parti- 
cular.    The  ideas  they  suggest  must  be  obvious  and  on  the  surface. 
A  grocer's  and  tea-dealer's  is  a  good  thing.     It  fills  the  mind  instantly 
with  a  variety  of  pleasant  tastes,  as  the  ladies  in  Italy  on  certain  holi- 
days pelt  the  gentlemen  with  sweetmeats.     An  undertaker's  is  as  great 
a  baulk  to  one's  spirits,  as  a  loose  stone  to  one's  foot.     It  gives  one  a 
deadly  jerk.     But  it  is  refreshing  upon  the  whole  to  see  the  inhabitant 
looking  carelessly  but  of  doors,  or  hammering  while  humming  a  tune  ; 
for  why  should  he  die  a  death  at  everyfresh  order  for  a  coffin  ?     An 
undertaker  walking  merrily  drunk  by  the  side  of  a  hearse  is  a  horrid 
object;  but  an  undertaker  singing  and  hammering  in  his  shop  is  only 
rapping  death  himself  on  the  knuckles.     The  dead  are  not  there;  the 
altered  fellow-creature  is  not  there ;  but  only  the  living  man,  and 
the  abstract  idea  of  death ;  and  he  may  defy  that  as  much  as  he  pleases. 
An  apothecary's  is  the  more  deadly  thing  of  the  two ;  for  the  coffin 
may  be  made  for  a  good  old  age,  but  the  draught  and  the  drug  are  for 
the  sickly.     An  apothecary's  looks  well  however  at  night-time,  on 
account  of  the  coloured  glasses.     It  is  curious  to  see  two  or  three 
people  talking  together  in  the  light  of  one  of  them,  and  looking  pro- 
foundly blue.     There  are  two  good  things  in  an  Italian  warehouse,-— 
it's  name  and  it's  olives  ;  but  it  is  chiefly  built  up  of  gout.     Nothing 
can  be  got  out  of  a  brazier's  windows,  except  by  a  thief :  but  we  un- 
derstand it  is  a  good  place  to  live  at  for  those  who  cannot  procure 
water-falls.     A  music  shop  with  it's  windows  full  of  title-pages,  isu 


THE  INDICATOR.  i269 

ptovokingly  insipid  to  look  at,  considering  the  quantity  of  slumbering 
enchantment  inside,  -which  only  wants  waking.     A  bookseller's  is  inte- 
resting, especially  if  the  books  are  very  old  or  very  new,  and  have 
frontispieces.  But  let  no  author,  with  or  without  mon«y  in  his  pocket, 
trust  himself  in  the  inside,  unless  like  the  bookseller,  he  has  too  much 
at  home.     An  author  is  like  a  baker ;  it  is  for  him  to  make  the  sweets, 
and  others  to  buy  and  enjoy  them.     And  yet  not  so.     Let  us  not  blas- 
pheme the  "  divinity  that  stirs  within  us."     The  old  comparison  of 
the  bee  is  better  ;  for  even  if  his  toil  at  last  is  his  destruction,  and  he 
is  killed  in  order  to  be  plundered,  he  has  had  the  range  of  nature 
before  he  dies.     His.  has  been  the  summer  air,  and  the  sunshine,  and 
the  flowers ;  and  gentle  ears  have  listened  to  him,  and' gentle  eyes 
have  been  upon  him.     Let  others  eat  his  honey  that  please,  so  that  he 
has  had  his  morsel  and  his  song.T-A  book-stall  is  better  for  an  author 
than  a  regular  shop  ;  for  the  books  are  cheaper,  the  choice  often  better 
and  more  ancient ;  and  he  may.  look  at  them,  and  move  on,  without 
the  horrors  of  not  buying  any  thing ;  unless  indeed  the  master  or  mis- 
tress stands  looking  at  him  from  the  door ;  which  is  a  vile  practice. 
It  is  necessary,  we  suppose,  to  guard  against  pilferers  ;  but  then  ought 
not  a  stall-keeper,  of  any  perception,  to  know  one  of  us  real  mag- 
nanimous spoilers  of    our  gloves  from    a  sordid  thief?      A  tavern 
and  coffee-house  is  a  pleasant  «6ight,  from  it's  sociality  ;  not  to  men- 
tion the  illustrious  club  memories  of  the  times  of  ShakspeSre  and 
the  Tatlers.     The  rural  transparencies,  however,  which  they  have  ia 
their  windows,  with  all  our  liking  of  the  subject,   would  perhaps  be 
better  in  any  others  ;  for  tavern-sociality  is  a  town-thing,  ar\d  should 
be  content  with  town  ideas.     A  landscape  in  the  window  makes  us 
long  to  change  it  at  once  for  a  rural  inn  ;  to  have  a  rosy-faced  damsel 
attending  us,  instead  of  a  sharp  and  serious  waiter  ;  and  to  catch, -in 
the  intervals  of  chat,  the  sound  of  a  rookery  instead  of  cookery.    We 
confess  that  the  commonest  public-house  in  town  is  not  such  an  eye- 
sore to  us,  as  it  is  with  some.     It  >may  not  be  very  genteel,  but  nei- 
ther is   every  thing  that  is  rich.     There  may  be  a  little  too  much 
drinking  and  roaring  going  on  in  the  middle  of  the  week ;  but  what, 
in  the  mean  time,  are  pride,  and  avarice,  and  all  the  unsocial  vices 
about?     Before  we  object  to   public-houses,  and  abov^  all  to  their 
Saturday  evening  recreations,  we  must  alter  the  systems  that  make 
them  a  necessary  comfort  to  the  poor  and  laborious.     Till  then,   in 
spite  of  the  vulgar  part  of  the  pelite,  we  shall  have  an  esteem  for  the 
Devil  and  the  Bag  o'  Nails  ;  and  like  to  hear,  as  we  go  along  on   Sa- 
turday night,  the  applauding  knocks  on  the   table  that  follow  the 
song  of  "  Lovely  Nan,"  or  "  Brave  Captain  Death,"  or  "  Tobacco 
is  an  Indian  Weed,'-  or  ''Why,  Soldiers,   why,"  or  "Says  Plato, 
why  should  man  be  vain,"  or  that  j  udicious  and  unanswerable  ditty 
commencing 

Now  what  can  man  more  desire 
Nor  sluing  by  a  sea-coal  fire  ; 
And  on  his  knees,  &c. 

We  will  even  refuse  to  hear  any  thing  against  a  gin-shop,  till   the  va- 
rious systems  of  the  moralists  and  economists  are  discussed,  and  the 


270  THE  INDICATOR. 

virtuous  leave  off  making  prostitutes  and  drinking  old  port.  In  the 
mean  time,  we  give  up  to  any  body's  dislike  the  butcher's  and  fish- 
monger's, with  their  blood-dropping  sheep  and  their  crimped  cod. 
And  yet  see  how  things  go  by  comparison.  We  remember  in  our  boy- 
hood, when  a  lady  from  the  West  Indies,-of  a  very  delicate  and  high- 
bred nature,  could  find  nothing  about  our  streets  that  more  excited 
her  admiration,  than  the  butchers'  shops.  She  had  no  notion,  from 
what  she  had  seen  in  her  own  country,  that  so  ugly  a  business  could 
be  carried  on  with  so  much  neatness,  and  become  actually  passable. 
An  open  potato-shop  is  a  dull,  bleak-looking  place,  except  in  the 
height  of  summer.  A  cheesemonger's  is  then  at  it's  height  of  annoy- 
ance,- unless  you  see  a  paviour  or  bricklayer  coming  out  with  his 
three-penn'orth  on  his  bread ;— a  better  sight  than  the  glutton's  wad- 
dling away  from  the  fishmonger's.  Apoulterer's  is  a  dead-bodied  busi- 
ness, with  it's  birds  and  their  lax  necks.  We  dislike  to  see  a  bird 
any  where  but  in  the  open  air,  alive,  and  quick.  Of  all  creatures, 
restraint  and  death  become  it's  winged  vivacity  the  least.  For  the 
same  reason  we  hate  aviaries.  Dog-shops  are  tolerable.  A  cook- 
shop  does  not  mingle  the  agreeable  with  the  useful..  We  hate  it's 
panes  with  Ham  and  Beef  scratched  upon  them  in  white  letters.  An 
ivory-turner  s  is  pleasant,  with  it's  red  and  white  chessmen,  and  little 
Lig-headed  Indians  on  elephants.  So  is  a  toy-shop,  with  it's  endless 
delights  for  children.  A  coach-maker's  is  not  disagreeable  if  you  can  see 
the  painting  and  pannels.  An  umbrella-shop  only  reminds  one  of  a  rainy 
tlay,  unless  it  is  a  shop  for  sticks  also,  which,  as  we  showed  list  Week, 
&re  meritorious  articles.  The  curiosity-shop  is  sometimes  very  amus- 
ing, with  it's  mandarinsj,  stuffed  birds,  odd  old  carved  faces,  and  a 
variety  of  things  as  indescribable  as  bits  of  dreams.  The  green- 
grocer carries  his  recommendation  in  his  epithet.  The  hair-dressers 
are  also  interesting,  as  far  as  their  hair  goes,  but  not  as  their  heads ; 
always  bearing  in  mind  that  we  mean  the  heads  in  their  windows.  One 
of  the  shops  we  like  least  is  an  angling  repository,  with  it's  rod  for  a 
sign,  and  a  fish  dancing  in  the  agonies  of  death  at  the  end  of  it. 
We  really  cannot  see  what  equanimity  there  is  in  jerking  a  lacerated 
'carp  out  of  Mater  by  the  jaws,  merely  because  it  has  not  the  power  of 
making  a  noise  :  for  we  presume  that  the  most  philosophic  of  anglers 
would  hardly  delight  in  catching  shrieking  fish.  An  optician's  is 
;jw)t  very  amusing,  unless  it  has  those  reflecting  glasses  in  which  you 
see  your  face  run  off  on  each  side  into  attenuated  width,  or  upwards 
and  downwards  in  the  same  manner  in  dreary  longitude.  A  Sadler's 
is  good,  because  it  reminds  one  of  horses.  A  Christian  sword-maker's 
or  gun-maker's  is  edifying.  A  glass-shop  is  a  beautiful  spectacle.  It 
reminds  one  of  the  splendours  of  a  fairy  palace.  We  like  a  black- 
smith's for  the  sturdy  looks  and  thumpings  of  the  men,  the  sv,;arthy 
colour,  the  fiery  sparkles,  and  the  thunder-breathing  throat  of  the 
furnace.  Of  other  houses  of  traffic,  not  common  in  the  streets, 
there  is  something  striking  to  us  in  the  large  well-conditioned  horses 
of  the  brewers,  and  the  rich  smoke  rolling  from  out  their  chimnies. 
We  also  greatly  admire  a  wharf,  with  it's  boats,  barrels,  and  pack- 
ages, and  the  fresh  air  from  the  water ;  not  to  mention  the  smell  of 


THE  INDICATOR.  271 

pitch.  It  carries  us  at  once  a  hundred  miles  over  the  water.  For  si- 
milar reasons,  the  crabbede?t  old  lane  has  it's  merits  in  our  eyes,  if 
there  is  a  sail-maker's  in  it,  or  a  boat-buildef's  and  water  at  the  end. 
How  used  old  Roberts  of  Lambeth  to  gratify  the  aspiring  modesty  of 
our  school-coats,  when  he  welcomed  us  down  to  his  wherries  and 
captains  on  a  holiday,  and  said  "  Blue  against  Black  at  any  time," 
meaning  the  Westminster  boys.  And  the  colleges  will  ratify  his 
praise,  taking  into  consideration  the  diiFerence  of  the  numbers  that 
go  there  from  either  cloisters.  But  of  all  shops  in  the  streets,  a 
print-seller's  pleases  us  most.  We  would  rather  pay  a  shilling  to  Mr. 
Colnaghi  of  Cockspur-street,  or  Mr.  Molteno  of  Pall-mall,  to  look 
at  his  windows  on  one  of  their  best  furnished  days,  than  we  would 
for  many  an  exhibition.  We  can  see  fine  engravings  there, — transla- 
tions from  Raphael  and  Titian,  which  are  newer  than  hundreds  of 
originals.  We  do  not  despise  a  pastry-cook's,  though  we  would  ra- 
ther not  eat  tarts  and  puffs  before  the  half-averted  face  of  the  prettiest 
of  accountants ;  especially  with  a  beggar  watching  and  praying  all  the 
while  at  the  door.  We  need  not  expatiate  on  the  beauties  of  a  florist's, 
where  you  see  unwithering  leaves,  and  roses  made  immortal.  We 
think  they  would  do  their  trade  more  good  if  they  hung  their  windows 
with  a  greater  number  of  flowers,  ticketing  some  of  them  with  their 
names  and  prices,  and  announcing  crowns  and  wreaths  for  hanging  up 
in  rooms  as  well  as  wearing  on  the  head.  A  dress  warehouse  is  some- 
times really  worth  stopping  at,  for  it's  flowered  draperies  and  richly 
coloured  shawls.  But  one's  pleasure  is  apt  to  be  disturbed  (ye  powers 
of  gallantry !  bear  witness  to  the  unwilling  pen  that  writes  it)  by  the 
fair  faces  that  come  forth,  and  the  half-polite  half-execrating  expres- 
sion of  the  tradesman  that  bows  them  out : — for  here  takes  place  the 
chief  enjoyment  of  the  mystery  yclept  Shopping  ;  and  here  while  some 
ladies  give  the  smallest  trouble  unwillingly,  others  have  an  infinity  of 
things  turned  over,  for  the  mere  satisfaction  of  wasting  their  own  time 
and  the  shopman's.  We  have  read  of  a  choice  of  a  wife  by  cheese. 
It  is  difficult  to  speak  of  preference  in  such  matters,  and  all  such  single 
modes  of  trial  must  be  something  equivocal :  but  we  must  say,  that  of 
all  modes  of  the  kind,  we  should  desire  no  better  way  of  seeing  what 
ladies  we  admired  most  and  whom  least,  than  by  witnessing  this  trial 
of  them  at  a  linen-draper's  counter.  It  is  on  such  occasions,  we  pre- 
sume, that  snuiF-takers  delight  to  solace  themselves  with  a  pinch  of 
Thirty-seven ;  and  we  accordingly  do  so  in  imagination  at  our  friend 
Gliddon's  in  Tavistock-street,  who  is  a  higher  kind  of  Lilly  to  the 
Indicator, — our  papers  lying  among  the  piquant  snuffs,  as  those  of 
our  illustrious  predecessor  The  Tatler  did  among  Mr.  Lilly's  perfumes 
at  the  corner  of  Beaufort-buildings.  Since  the  peace  with  France,  the 
shops  of  our  tobacconists  have  become  as  amusing  as  print-shops ; 
though  not  always,  it  must  be  confessed,  in  a  style  of  delicacy  becom- 
ing their  enamoured  boxes.  At  our  friend's  in  Tavistock-street  every- 
thing.is  managed  in  a  way  equally  delicate  and  cordial ;  and  while  the 
leisurely  man  of  taste  buys  his  Paris  or  his  Indicator,  the  busier  one 
may  learn  how  to  set  up  his  gas-Hght  in  good  classical  style,  and  both 


272  'HIE  INDICATOR. 

see  how  cooipletely  even  a  woman,  of  true  feelfngfi.  can  retairt  th«»  eftsioRt 
aiul  pleasantest  good-breeding  In  the  m><VX  sf  ubservant  eyes  and  an 
bomble  occupation. 


TO  CpRRES^bNDENTS. 

.  Jn  Odd  Slick  ne^t  week,  with  a  few  additional  words  iqn  the  subject  of  Sticks. 
*    An  Index  will  be  prepared  for  the  Yolnme  of  the  Iwrfjcafer,  as  well  aa  a  Title* 
p^ge.    ■        ■ 


Printed  and  published  by  JosKPH  Apple  YARD,  No.  19,  Oitberine-street,  Strand; 
Price  .2d. — And  sold  also  by  A.  Gliddoji,  Importer  of  Snuffs,  No.  31, "Tavistock* 
street,  Covent-garden.  Order*  received  at  the  above  places,  and  by  all  Book-* 
sellers  and  Newsmen. 


■i-'. 


THE    INDICATOR. 


There  lie  arriving  round  about  doth  flie. 
And  takes  survey  with  busie  curious  eye : 
Nuw  this,  now  that,  lie  tasteth  tenderly. 

Sjt>JjNSER. 


No.  XXXV.— WEDNESDAY,  JUNE  7tb,   1820. 


A  NEARER  VIEW  OF  SOME  OF  THE  SHOPS. 

In  the  general  glance  we  took  last  week  at  shops,  we  found  our- 
selves unwillingly  compelled  to  pass  some  of  them  too  quickly.  It  is 
the  object  therefore  of  the  present  article  to  enter  into  those  more  at- 
tractive thresholds,  and  look  a  little  about  us.  We  imagine  a  fine  > 
day;  time,  about  noon;  scene,  any  good  brilliant  street.  The  ladies 
ar6  abroad  in  white  and  green ;  the  beaux  lounging,  conscious  of  their 
waists  and  neckcloths ;  the  busy  pushing  onward,  conscious  of  their 
bills;  the  dogs  and  coaches— but  we  must  reserve  this  out>of-door 
view  of  the  streets  for  a  separate  article. 

~\  To  begiu  then,  where  our  shopping  experience-  began,  withlhe  toy^ 
shop. 

Visions  of  glory,  spare  Our  aching  sight! 

Ye  just  breeclied  ages,  crowd  not  on  our  soul  I; 

W^fr  still  seem  to  have  a  lively  sense  of  the  smell  of  that  gorgeous  red 
paint,  which  was  on  fhe  handle  of  our  first  wooden  sword!  The 
pewter  guard  also,— how  beautifully  fretted  and  like  silver  did  it 
look  !  How  did  we  hang  it  round  our  shoulder  by  the  proud  belt  of 
an  old  ribbon  ;^then  feel  it  well  suspended ; — ^then  draw  it  out  of  the 
sheath,  eager  to  cut  down  four  savage  men  for  ill-using  ditto  of  dam- 
sels !  An  old  muff  made  an  excellent  grenadier's  cap ;  or  one's  hat  and 
feather,  with  the  assistance  of  three  surreptitious  large  pins,  became 
fiercely  modern  and  military.  There  it  is,  in  that  corner  of  the  win- 
dow,— the  same  identical  sword,  to  all  appearance,  which  kept  us 
awake  the  first  night  behind  our  pillow.  We  still  feel  ourselves  little 
boys,  while  standing  in  this  shop ;  and  for  that  matter,  so  we  do  on 
other  occasions.  A  field  has  as  much  merit  in  our  eyes,  and  ginger- 
bread almost  as  much  in  our  mouths,  as  at  that  daisy -plucking  and 
lemon-cake-munching  period  of  life.  There  is  the  trigger-rattling 
gun,— fine  of  it's  kindj  but  not  so  complete  a  thing  as  the  sword*    It's 


274  THE  INDICATOR. 

J  memories  are  not  so  ancient :  for  Alexander  or  St.  George  did  not  fight 
with  a  musket.     Neither  is  it  so  true  a  thing ;  it  is  not  "  like  life." 
The  trigger  is  too  much  like  that  of  a  cross-bow  ;  and  the  pea  which  it 
shoots,  however  hard,   produces  even  in   the  imaginative  faculties  of 
boyhood  a  humiliating  flash  of  the  mock-heroic.     It  is  difficult  to  fancy 
a  dragon  killed  with  a  pea:  but  the  shape  and  appurtenances  of  the 
sword  being  genuine,  the  whole  sentiment  of  massacre  is  as  much  in  it's 
wooden  blade,  as  if  it  were  steel  of  Damascus.     The  drum  is  still  more 
real,  though  not  so  heroic— In  the  corner  opposite  are  battle-doors 
and  shuttle-cocks,  which  have  their  maturer  beauties  ; — balls,  which 
have  the  additional  zest  of  the  danger  of  breaking  people's  windows  ;— 
ropes,  good  for  swinging  and  skipping,  especially  the  long  ones  which 
others  turn  for  you,  while  you  run  in  a  masterly  manner  up  and 
down,  or  skip  in  one  spot  with  an  easy  and  endless  exactitude  of  toe, 
looking  alternately  at  their  conscious  faces ; — blood-allies,  with  which 
the  possessor  of  a  crisp  finger  and  thumb-knuckle  causes  the  smitten 
marbles  to  vanish  out  of  the  ring ;  kites,  which  must  appear  to  more 
vital  birds  a  very  ghastly  kind  of  fowl,  with  their  grim  long  white 
faces,  no  bodies,  and  endless  tails ; — K;ricket-bats,   manly  to  handle  ;— 
trap-bats,  a  genteel  inferiority ;— swimming-corks,  despicable ;— horses 
on  wheels,  an  imposition  on  the  infant  public ; — rocking  horses,  too 
much  like  Pegasus,  ardent  yet  never  getting  on ; — Dutch  toys,  so  like 
life,  that  they  ought  to  be  better ;— Jacob's  ladders,  flapping  down  one 
over  another  their  tintinnabulary  shutters; — dissected  maps,  from 
which  the  infant  statesmen  may  learn  how  to  dovetail  provinces  and 
kingdoms ;— paper  posture-makers,  who  hitch  up  their  knees  against 
their  shoulder-blades,  and  dangle  their  legs  like  an  opera  dancer  ;— 
Lilliputian  plates,  dishes,  and  other  household  utensils,  in  which  a 
grand  dinner  is  served  up  out  of  half  an  apple  ; — boxes  of  paints,  to 
colour  engravings  with,  always  beyond  the  outline  ;- — ditto  of  bricks, 
a  very  sensible  and  lasting  toy,  which  we  except  from  a  grudge  we 
have  against  the  gravity  of  infant  geometricks ; — whips,  very  useful 
for  cutting  people's  eyes  uiiawares  ;-r-hoops,  one  of  the 'most  ancient 
as  well  as  excellent  of  toys  ;— sheets  of  pictures,  from  A  apple-pie  up^ 
to  farming,  military,  and  zoological  exhibitions,  always  taking  care  that, 
the  Fly  is  as  large  as  the  Elephant,  and  the  letter  X  exclusively  ap- 
propriated to  Xerxes; — musical  deal-boxes,  rather  complaining  than^- 
sweet,  and  more  like  a  peal  of  bodkins  than  bells  ;—penny-trumpetSj| 
awful    at    Bartlemy-tide ; — jew's     harps,    that    thrill    and    breathf 
between  the  lips  like  a  metal  tongue; — carts, — carriages, — hobby .^ 
horses,  upon  which  the  infant  equestrian  prances  about  proudly  on 
his  own  feet;— in  short,  not  to  go  through  the  Vrhole  representativ* 
body  of  existence, — dolls,  which  are  so  dear  to  the  maternal  instincts 
of  little  girls.     We  protest  however  against  that  abuse  of  them,  whicf 
makes  them  full-dressed  young  ladies  in  body,  while  they  remiain  in.^ 
fant  in  face ;  especially  when  they  are  of  frail  wax.     It  is  cultivating 
finery  instead  of  affection.     We  like  good  honest  plump  limbs  of  cottc 
and  saw-dust,  dressed  in   baby-linen ;    or  even  our  ancient  younj 
friends,  with  their  staring  dotted  eyes,  red  varnished  faces,  triaugulai 


THE  INDICATOR.  275 

noses,  and  Rosinante  wooden  limbs, — not,  it  must  be  confessed,  ex- 
cessively shapely  or  feminine,  but  the  reverse  of  fragile  beauty,  and 
.  prepared  against  all  disasters. 

The  next  step  is  to  the  Pastry *s-cook's,  where  the  plain  bun  is  still 
the  pleasantest  thing  in  our  eyes,  from  it's  respectability  in  those  of 
childhood.  The  pastry,  less  patronized  by  judicious  mothers,  is  only 
so  much  elegant  indigestion :  yet  it  is  not  easy  to  forget  the  pleasure  of 
nibbling  away  the  crust  all  round  a  raspberry  or  currant  tart,  in  order 
to  enjoy  the  three  or  four  delicious  semicircular  bites  at  the  fruity  ple- 
nitude remaining.  There  is  a  custard  with  a  wall  of  paste  round  it, 
which  provokes  a  siege  of  this  kind;  and  the  cheese-cake  has  it's  ame- 
nities of  approach.  The  acid  flavour  is  a  relief  to  the  mawkishness  of 
the  biffin  or  pressed  baked  apple,  and  an  addition  to  the  glib  and  qui- 
vering lightness  of  the  jelly.  Twelfth  Cake,  which  when  cut  looks 
like  the  side  of  a  rich  pit  of  earth  covered  with  snow,  is  pleasant  from 
warmer  associations.  Confectionery  does  not  seem  in  the  same  re- 
quest as  of  old.  It's  paint  has  hurt  it's  reputation.  Yet  the  school- 
boy has  still  much  to  say  for  it's  humbler  suavities,  such  as  elecampane, 
hardbake,  bull's-eyes,  comfits,  the  rocky  chrystals  of  sugar-candy,  the 
smooth  twist  of  barley-sugar  which  looks  like  a  petrified  stream  of  tea, 
and  the  melting  powderiness  of  peppermint.  There  used  to  be  a 
mystery  called  mimpins,  which  as  Dr.  Johnson  would  say,  made  a 
pretty  sweetmeat.  Kisses  are  very  amiable  and  allegorical.  Eight  or 
ten  of  them,  judiciously  wrapped  up  in  pieces  of  letter  paper,  have 
saved  many  a  loving  heart  the  trouble  of  a  less  eloquent  billet-doux. 
Candid  citron  we  look  upon  to  be  the  very  acme  and  atticism  of  con- 
fectionary gr^ce.  Preserves  are  too  much  of  a  good  thing,  with  the 
exception  of  the  jams  that  retain  their  fruit-skins.  '*  Jam  satis."  They 
qualify  the  cloying.  Yet  Marmalade  must  not  be  passed  over  In  these 
times,  when  it  has  been  raised  to  the  dignity  of  the  peerage.  There  is  a 
Duke  of  Marmalade  in  Hayti,  and  a  Count  of  Lemonade, — -so  called, 
we  presume,  from'  pl^es  in  which  those  eminent  relishes  are  manu- 
factured. We  have  not  yet  heard  of  a  Lord  Viscount  Jam.— -After 
all,  we  must  own  that  there  is  but  one  thing  for  which  we  care  much 
at  a  Pastry-cook's,  except  Q«r  old  acquaintance  the  bun ;  especially 
as  we  can  take  up  that,  and  go  on.  It  is  an  ice.  Fancy  a  ver}'^  hot 
day  ;  the  blinds  down  ;  the  loungers  unusually  languid ;  the  pavement 
burning  one's  feet;  the  sun,  with  a  strong  outline  in  the  street, 
baking  one  whole  side  of  it  like  a  brick-kiln  •  so  that  every  body  is 
crowding  on  the  other,  except  a  man  going  to  intercept  a  creditor 
bound  for  the  continent.  Then  think  of  a  heaped-up  ice,  brought 
upon  a  salver  with  a  spoon.  What  statesman,  of  any  warmth  of  ima- 
gination, would  not  pardon  the  Neapolitans  in  summer,  for  an  insur- 
rection on  accoijnt  of  the  want  pf  ice^  Think  of  the  first  sidelong  dip 
of  the  spoon  in  it,  bringing  away  a  well-sliced  lupip ;  then  of  the  sweet 
wintery  refreshment,  tha|t  goes  lengthening  down  one's  throat ;  and 
lastly,  of  the  sense  of  power  and  satisfaction  resulting  from  having  had 
the  ice,. 

Not  heaven  itself  can  do  away  that  slice  ; 

But  what  has  besu,  has  been ;  and  I  have  had  my  ice. 


276  THE  INDICATOR. 

We  unaccountably  emitted  two  excellent  shops  last  week, — the 
fruiterer's  and  the  sculptor's.  There  is  great  beauty  as  Fell  as  other 
agreeableness  in  a  well-disposed  fruiterer's  window.  Here  are  the 
round  piled-up  oranges,  deepening  almost  into  red,  and  heavy  with 
juice ;  the  apple  with  it's  brown  red  cheek,  as  if  it  had  slept  in  the 
sun ;  the  pea^-,  swelling  downwards,  and  provocative  of  a  huge  bite  in 
the  side;  thronging  grapes,  like  so  many  tight  little  bags  of  wine;  the 
peach,  whose  handsome  leathern  coat  strips  off  so  finely ;  the  pearly 
or  ruby-like  currants,  heaped  in  light  long  baskets ;  the  red  little 
mouthfuls  of  strawberries,  ditto;  the  larger  purple  ones  of  plumbs; 
cherries,  whose  old  comparison  with  lips  is  better  than  any  thing  new  ; 
inulberries,  dark  and  rich  with  juice,  fit-to  grow  over  what  Homer  calls 
the  deep  black-watered  fountains ;  the  swelling  pomp  of  melons ;  the 
rough  inexorable-looking  cocoa-nut,  milky  at  heart ;  the  elaborate 
elegance  of  walnuts;  the  quaint  cashoo-nut;  almonds,  figs,  raisins,  ta- 
marinds, green  leaves, — in  short, 

Wliatever  Eartli,  all-bearing  mother,  yielJs 
In  India  East  or  West,  or  middle  shore 
In  Pontus  or  tlie  Punick  coast,  or  where 
Alcinous  reigned,  fruit  of  all  kinds,  in  coat 
Rough,  or  smooth  rind,  or  bearded  husk,  or  shell. 

Milton. 

There  is  something  of  more  refined  service  in  waiting  upon  a  lady  m 
a  fruit-shop,  then  in  a  pastry-cook's.  The  eating  of  tarts,  as  Sir  Walter 
^cott  handsomely  saith  in  his  Life  of  Dryden  (who  used  to  enjoy  them, 
it  seems,  in  company  with  "  Madam  Reeves"^  is  "  no  inelegant 
pleasure  ;''  but  there  is  something  still  more  graceful  and  suitable  in 
the  choosing  of  the  natural  fruit,  with  it's  rosy  lips  and  red  cheeks.  A 
white  hand  looks  better  on  a  basket  of  plums,  than  in  the  doubtful 
touching  of  syrupy  and  sophisticated  pastry.  There  is  less  of  the 
kitchen  about  the  fair  visitor.  She  is  more  Pomona-like,  native,  and 
to  the  purpose.     We  help  her,  as  we  would  a  local  deity. 

Here  be  grapes  whose  lusty  blood 

Is  the  learned  poets  good,  ' 
•  Sweeter  yet  did  never  crown 

The  head  of  Bacchus; — Nuts  mofe  brown 

Than  the  squirrels  teeih  that  crack  (hem; 

Deign,  O  fairest  fair,  to  take  them. 

For  these  black  ey'd  Driope 

Hath  often  times  commanded  me, 

With  my  clasped  knee  to  clime; 

See  how  well  the  lusty  time 

Hath  deckt  their  rising  dieeks  in  red, 

Such  as  on  your  lips  is  spread. 

Here  be  berries  for  a  Queen, 

Some  be  red,  some  be  green, 
,  These  are  of  that  luscious  meat. 

The  great  God  Pan  himself  doth  eat. 

All  these,  and  what  the  woods  can  yield, 

The  hanging  mountain  or  the  field, 

1  freely  offer,  and  ere  long 

Will  bring  you  more,  more  sweet  and  strong. 


I 


THE  INDICATOR.  277 

Till  when  humbly  leave  I  take,  ■  . 

Lest  the  great  Pan  do  awake. 
That  sleeping  lies  in  a  deep  glade. 
Under  a  broad  beech's  shade. 

Fletcher's  Faithful  Shepherdess. 

How  the  poets  double  every  delight  for  us,  with  their  imfvginatioa  and 
their  music ! 

In  the  windows  of  some  of  the  sculptors'  shops,  artificial  fruit  may 
be  seen.  It  is  a  better  thing  to  put  upon  a  mantle-piece,  than  many 
articles  of  greater  fashion ;  but  it  gives  an  abominable  sensation  to 
oiKj's  imaginary  teeth.  The  incautious  epicure  who  plunges  his  teeth 
into  "  a  painted  snow-ball"  in  Italy  (see  Brydone'sTour  in  Sicily  and 
Malta),  can  hardly  receive  so  jarring  a  balk  to  his  gums,  as  the  bare 
apprehension  of  a  bite  at  a  stone  peach.  But  the  farther  you  go  in  a 
sculptor's  shop  the  better.  Many  persons  are  not  aware  that  there  are 
show-rooms  in  these  places,  which  are  well  worth  getting  a  sight  of  by 
some  small  purchase.  For  the  best  artistical  casts,  the  Italian  shops, 
such  as  Papera's  in  Marylebone-street,  Golden-square,  are,  we  be- 
lieve, the  best.  We  can  safely  speak  as  to  the  pleasant  attendance 
in  that  shop.  Shout  in  Holborn  seems  to  deal  chiefly  in  modern 
things;  but  he  has  a  room  up -stairs,  full  of  casts  from  the  antique, 
large  and  small,  that  amounts  to  an  exhibition.  Of  all  the  shop 
pleasures,  that  are  "  not  inelegant,"  an  hour  or  two  passed  in  a  place 
of  this  kind  is  surely  one  of  the  most  polite.  Here  are  the  gods  and 
licroes  of  old,  and  the  more  beneficent  philosophers  ancient  and 
modern.  You  are  looked  upon,  as  you  walk  among  them,  by  the 
paternal  majesty  of  Jupiter,  the  force  and  decision  of  Minerva,  the  st^I 
more  arresting  gentleness  of  Venus,  the  budding  compactness  of  Hebe, 
the  breathing  inspiration  of  Apollo.  Here  the  Celestial  Venus,  naked 
in  heart  and  body,  ties  up  her  locks,  her  drapery  hanging  upon  her 
lower  limbs.  Here  the  Belvidere  Apollo,  breathing  forth  his  triumphant 
disdain,  follows  with  an  earnest  eye  the  shaft  that  has  killed  the  ser- 
pent. Here  the  Graces,  linked  in  an  affectionate  group,  meet  you  in 
the  naked  sincerity  of  their  innocence  and  generosity,  their  hands 
"•  open  as  day,"  and  two  advancing  for  oae  receding.  Here  Her- 
cules, like  the  building  of  a  man,  looks  down  from  his  propping 
club  as  if  half  disdaining  even  that  repose.  There  Mercury,  with  his 
light  limbs,  seems  just  to  touch  the  ground,  ready  to  give  a  start  with 
hJ5  foot  and  be  off  again.  Bacchus,  with  his  riper  cheek,  and  his 
lazier  hanging  locks,  appears  to  be  eyeing  one  of  his  nymphs.  The 
Vatican  Apollo  near  him,  leans  upon  the  stump  of  a  tree,  the  hand 
which  hangs  upon  it  holding  a  bit  of  his  lyre,  the  other  arm  thrown 
up  over  his  head,  as  if  he  felt  the  air  upon  his  body  and  heard  it  sing- 
ing through  the  strings.  In  a  corner  on  another  side,  is  the  Couching 
Venus  of  John  of  Bologna,  shrinking  just  before  she  steps  into  the  bath. 
The  Dancing  Faun  is  not  far  off,  with  his  mere  animal  spirits;  and  the 
Piping  Faun,  sedater  because  he  possesses  an  art  more  accomplished. 
Among  the  other  divinities,  we  lookup  with  veneration  to  old  Homer's 
head,  resembling  an  earthly  Jupiter.    Plato  beholds  us  with  a  bland  dig- 


278  THE  INDICATOR. 

nity,— -a  beau.t,y  unimpalrable  by  years.  IIow  different  from  the  brute 
impulse  of  Mars,  the  bloated  self-will  of  Nero,  or  the  dull  and  lite- 
ral effeminacy  of  some  of  the  other  Emperors  ?  We  have  before  ob- 
served, that  there  is  a  sort  of  presence  in  sculpture,  more  than  in 
any  other  representations  of  art.  It  is  curious  to  see  how  instinctive- 
ly people  wiil  fall  into  this  sentiment  when  they  come  into  a  place 
■with  busts  and  statues  in  it,  however  common.  They  hush,  as  if  the 
images  could  hear  them.  When  we  were  in  our  boyhood,  some  of 
our  most  delightful  holidays  were  spent  in  the  gallery  of  the  late  Mr. 
West,  in  Newman-street.  It  runs  a  good  way  back  from  the  street, 
crossing  a  small  garden,  and  opening  into  loftier  rooms  on  the  other 
side  of  it.  We  remember  how"  the  world  used  to  seem  shut  out 
from  us,  the  moment  the  street  door  was  closed,  and  we  began  step- 
ping down  those  long  carpeted  aisles  of  pictures,  with  statues  in  the 
angles  where  they  turned.  We  had  observed  every  body  walk,  down 
ihem  in  this  way,  like  the  mild  possessor  of  the  mansion ;  and  we 
went  so  likewise.  We  have  walked  down  them  with  him  at  night  to 
his  painting  room,  as  he  went  in  his  white  flannel  gown  with  a  lamp  in 
his  hand,  which  shot  a  lustrous  twilight  upon  the  pictured  walls  in 
passing :  and  every  thing  looked  so  quiet  and  graceful,  that  we  should 
have  thought  it  sacrilege  to  hear  a  sound  beyond  the  light  tread  of  his 
footsteps.  But  it  was  the  statues  that  impressed  us,  still  more 
than  the  pictures.  It  seemed  as  if  Venus  and  Apollo  waited  our 
turning  at  the  corners;  and  there  they  were,— always  the  same, 
placid  and  intuitive,  more  human  and  bodily  than  the  paintings,  yet 
too  divine  to  be  over-real.  It  is  to  that  house,  with  the  gallery  in 
question,  and  the  little  green  plot  of  ground  strrrounded  with  an 
arcade  and  busts,  that  we  owe  the  greatest  part  of  our  love  for  what 
is  Italian  and  belongs  to  the  fine  arts  :  and  if  this  is  a  piece  of  private 
history  with  which  the  readers  have  little  to  do,  they  will  excuse  it 
for  the  sake  of  the  greatest  of  all  excuses  ;  which  is  Love. 


A  WORD  OR  TWO  MORE  ON  STICKS. 

We  have  received  the  following  just  remonstrance  from  a  Corre- 
spondent :— 

TO    THE   INDICATOJU 

Sir, — I  was  this  morning  seeking  the  indulgence  of  a  fresh  supply 
of  snuff  at  Gliddon's,  and  inquiring  what  the  last  number  of  the  In- 
dicator said.  I  confess  t  was  agreeably  surprised  to  find  the  prin- 
cipal article  was  "  Of  (and  concerning)  Sticks." — In  my  day.  Sir,  I  have 
indulged  an  extravagant  fancy  for  canes  and  sticks- — but,  like  the 
children  of  the  fashionable  world,  I  have,  in  running  the  round, 
grown  tired  of  all  my  favourites  except  one  of  a  plain  and  usc- 
iful  sort.     Conceive  my  mortification  in  finding  this,  my  last  prop, 


THE  INDICATOR.  279 

not  included  in  your  catalogue  of  sticks  most  in  use  ;  especially  since 
it  is  become,  among  us  men  of  sticks,  the  description  most  approved. 
The  present  day,  which  is  one  of  mimicry,  boasts  scarcely  any  pro- 
tection except  in  the  very  stick  I  allude  to  ;  and  yet,  because  it  is  so 
unpresuming  in  its  appearance,  and  so  cheap,  the  gentlemen  "of  a 
day"  will  not  condescend  to  use  it.  We,  Sir,  who  make  a  stick  our 
constant  companion  (notwithstanding  our  motives  may  be  misunder- 
stood), value  the  tough,  the  useful,  the  highly  picturesque  "Ash 
Plant."  Its  siill  and  gentlemanly  colour  ;  its  peculiar  property  of 
bending  round  the  shoulders  of  a  man  without  breaking,  (in  the  event 
of  our  using  it  that  way)  ;  the  economy  of  the  thing,  as  economy  is 
the  order  of  the  day  (at  least  in  minor  concerns)  ;  its  being  the  best 
substitute  for  the  old-fashioned  horse-whip  in  a  morning  ride,  and 
now  so  generally  used  in  lieu  of  the  long  hunting  whip  in  the  sports 
of  the  chace  ;  answering  every  purpose,  for  gates,  &c.  without  offer- 
ing any  temptation  to  do  the  work  of  a  whipper-in  : — ^all  this,  and  much 
more,  might  be  said  of  the  neglected  (iround  Ash,  especially  if 
your  mind,  Sir,  were  directed  to  the  Tree  whose  roots  give  birth  to 
this,  the  last  and  only  decorative  prop  of, 

Your  humble  servant. 

An  Odd  Stick. 
Wednesday,  24th  May,  1820. 

We  must  cry  mercy  on  the  estimable  stick  here  complaining,  and 
indeed  on  several  other  sorts  of  wood,  unjustly  omitted  the  other  day. 
We  also  neglected  to  notice  those  ingenious  and  pregnant  walking* 
sticks,  which  contain  swords,  inkstands,  garden-seats,  &c.  and  some- 
times surprize  us  even  with  playing  a  tune.  As  the  ancient  poets 
wrote  stories  of  gods  visiting  people  in  human  shapes,  in  order  to 
teach  a  considerate  behaviour  to  strangers ;  so  an  abstract  regard  ought 
to  be  shewn  to  all  sticks,  inasmuch  as  the  irreverent  spectator  may 
not  know  what  sort  of  staff  he  is  encountering.  If  he  does  not  take 
care,  a  man  may  beat  him  and  "  write  him  down  an  ass,"  with  the 
same  accomplished  implement ;  or  sit  down  upon  it  before  his  face, 
where  there  is  no  chair  to  be  had ;  or  follow  up  his  chastisement  with  a 
victorious  tune  on  the  flute.  As  to  the  ash,  to  which  we  would  do 
especial  honour,  for  the  sake  of  our  injured,  yet  at  the  saTne  time  po- 
lite and  forgiving  Correspondent,  we  have  the  satisfaction  of  stating 
that  it  hath  been  reputed  the  very  next  wood,  in  point  of  utility,  to 
the  oak ;  and  hath  been  famous,  time  immemorial,  for  it's  stafhan 
qualities.  Infinite  are  the  spears  with  which  it  has  supplied  the  war- 
like, the  sticks  it  has  put  into  the  hands  of  a  less  sanguinary  courage, 
the  poles  it  has  furnished  for  hops,  vines,  &c.  and  the  arbours  which 
it  has  run  up  over  lovers.  The  Greek  name  for  it  was  Melia,  or  the 
Honied;  froma  juice  or  manna  which  it  drops,  and  which  has  been 
much  used  in  medicine  and  dying.  There  are,  or  were  about  forty 
years  back,  when  Count  Ginanni  wrote  his  History  of  the  Ravenna 
Pine  Forest,  large  ash  woods  in  Tuscany,  which  used  to  be  tapped 
for  those  purposes.  Virgil  calls  it  the  handsomest  tree  in  the  forest ; 
Chaucer  "  the  hardie  ashe ;"  and  Spenser,  with  an  eulogy  exclusively 


280  THE  INDICATOR. 

perfect,  "the  ash  for  nothing  ill.''  The  ground-ash  flourishes  the 
better,  the  more  it  is  cut  and  slashed  ; — a  sort  of  improvement,  which 
it  sometimes  bestows  in  return  upon  human  kind. 


SHORT  MEASURE  OF  INDICATOR. 

A  Correspondent  makes  a  very  welcome  complaint  respecting  the 
last  pages  of  some  of  our  numbers,  which  he  hopes  may  be  filled  up 
in  future,  otherwise  "  he  shall  not  be  able  to  defend  us  from  the  at-' 
lacks  of  our  enemies."  The  said  enemies  must  be  inordinate  rogues 
to  attack  even  our  blank  pages,  or  we  should  rather  say  our  blank 
page,  or  nearly  blank  page  ;  for  we  have  never  yet,  we  believe,  exhi- : 
bited  a  whole  one;  and  half  blanks  have  not  been  common.  The 
attacks,  however,  are  very  flattering,  and  we  receive  them  with  due  . 
gratitude.  The  truth  is,  we  always  wish  to  fill  up  our  pages;  not' 
because  we  do  not  think  a  shorter  quantity  a  very  decent  twopenny- 
worth,  but  because  there  is  an  implied  understanding  that  we  should 
be  magnanimously  cheap  and  superabundant ;  and  we  like  to,  chat  vvith 
our  readers  to  the  bottom  of  the  staircase.  Nevertheless  that  excellent 
race  of  persons,  Candid  and  Benevolent  from  time  immemorial,  would 
not  wish  us,  we  are  sure,  to  go  on  with  mechanical  scrupulousness  to 
the  end  of  the  page,  merely  to  fill  it  out,  when  we  happen  to  find 
our  say  at  an  end.  One  cannot  make  twopenn'orth  of  essay  like_  so 
much  of  butter,  by  dabbing^  a  little  piece  more  upon  it  to  make  up 
the  weight.  However,  we  wish  to  be  quite  free  in  this  matter,  not^so 
much  to  indulge  ourselves  in  license,  as  to  do  our  duty  agreeably. 


TO  CORRESPONDENTS. 


The  Editor  is  much  obliged  to  Mr.  R.  of  Walbrook  for  the  trouble  lie  has  taken, 
to  secure  the  delivery  of  his  Indicator,  and  trusts  that  he  has  no  more  with  it.  It! 
is  kiitd  to  all  parlies  to  mention  these  matters,  because  the  omissian  ma^^ioften! 
arise  from  mistake  as  well  as  neglect.  ■     -  ■  ■  • 


Printed  and  publl^d  by  Joseph  Appletard,  No.  19,  Gather me-strefet,  Strand/-  f 
Price  2d. — And  sold  also  by  A.  Gliddor,  Importer  of  SnufFs,  No.  31,  Tavistock- 
street,  Covent-garden.     Orders  received  at  the  above  places,  and  by  all  Book- 
sellers and  Newsmen. 


THE    INDICATOR. 


There  lie  arriving  round  about  doth  flie. 
And  takes  survey  with  busie  curious  eye : 
Now  this,  now  that,  lie  tastetli  teiidsrly. 

Spenser. 


No.  XXX VI.— WEDNESDAY,  JUNE  14th,   1820. 


THE  DAUGHTER  OF  HIPPOCRATES. 

In  the  time  of  the  Norman  reign  in  Sitily,  a  vessel  bound  from  that 
island  for  Smyrna  was  driven  by  a  westerly  wind  upon  the  island  of 
Cos.  The  crew  did  not  know  where  they  were,  though  they  had  often 
Tisited  the  island;. for  the  trading  towns  lay  in  other  quarters,  tind 
they  saw  nothing  before  them  but  woods  and  solitudes.  They  found 
however  a  comfortable  harbour ;  and  the  wind  having  fallen  in  the 
night,  they  went  on  shore  next  morning  for  water.  The  country 
proved  as  solitary  as  they  thought  it ;  vi^hich  was  the  more  extraordi- 
nary, inasmuch  as  it  was  very  luxuriant,  full  of  wild  figs  and  grapes, 
with  a  rich  uneven  ground,  and  stocked  with  goats  and  other  animaSfe, 
who  fled  whenever  they  appeared.  The  bees  were  remarkably  nume- 
rous ;  so  that  the  wild  honey,  fruits,  and  delicious  water,  especially 
one  spring  which  fell  into  a  beautiful  marble  bason,  made  them  more 
and  more  wonder  at  every  ^tep  that  they  could  see  no  human  inha- 
bitants. 

Thus  idling  about  and  wondering,  stretching  themselves  now  and 
then  among  the  wild  thyme  and  grass,  and  now  getting  up  to  look  at 
some  specially  fertile  place  which  another  called  them  to  see,  and 
which  they  thought  might  be  turned  to  fine  trading  purpose,  they 
came  upon  a  mound  covered  with  trees,  which  looked  into  a  flat  wide 
lawn  of  rank  grass,  with  a  house  at  the  end  of  it.  They  crept  nearer 
towards  the  house  along  the  mound,  still  continuing  among  the  trees, 
for  fear  they  were  trespassing  at  last  upon  somebody's  property.  It 
had  a  large  garden  wall  at  the  back,  as  much  covered  witli  ivy  as  if  it 
had  been  built  of  it.  Fruit-trees  looked  oyer  the  wall  with  au 
unpruned  thickness;  and  neither  at  the  back  nor  front  of  the  house 
were  there  any  signs  of  humanity.  It  was  an  ancient  marble  building, 
where  glass  was  not  to  be  expected  in  the  windows ;  but  it  was  much 
dilapidated,  and  the  grass  grew  up  over  the  steps.  They  listened  agaia, 
and  again";  but  nothing  was  to  be  heard  like  a  sound  of  men ;  nor 
scarcely  of  any  thlng^else.    There  was  an  intense  noon-day  silence. 


282  .  THE  INDICATOR. 

Only  the  hares  made  a  rustling  noise  as  they  ran  about  the  long  hiding 
grass.  The  house  looked  like  the  tomb  of  human  nature  amidst  the 
vitality  of  earth. 

''  Did  you  see  ?''  said  one  of  the  crew,  turning  pale,  and  hastening 
to  go.  "  See  what  ?"  said  the  others.  "  What  looked  out  of  window  ?" 
They  all  turned  their  faces  towards  the  house,  but  saw  nothing. 
Upon  this  they  laughed '  at  their  companion,  who  persisted  however 
with  great  earnestness,  and.  with  great  reluctance  at  stopping,  to  say 
that  he  saw  a  strange  hideous  kind  of  face  look  out  of  window.  "  Let 
us  go,  Sir,"  said  he,  to  the  Captain ; — "  for  I  tell  ye  what :  I  know 
this  place  now  :  and  you,  Signer  Gualtier,"  continued  he,  turning  to 
a  young  man,  "  you  may  now  follow  that  adventure  I  have  often  you 
wish  to  be  engaged  in."  The  crew  turned  pale,  and  Gualtier  among 
them.  "  Yes,"  added  the  man,"  we  are  fallen  upon  the  enchanted 
part  of  the  island  of  Cos,  where  the  daughter  of — Hush  !  Look  there !" 
They  turned  their  faces  again,  and  beheld  the  head  of  a  large  serpent 
looking  out  of  window.  Its  eyes  were  direct  upon  them  ;  and  stretch- 
ing out  of  window,  it  lifted  back  its  head  with  little  sharp  jerks  like 
a  fowl ;  and  so  stood  keenly  gazing. 

The  terrified  sailors  would  have  begun  to  depart  quicklier  than  they 
did,  had  not  fear  itself  made  them  move  slowly.  Their  legs  seemed 
melting  from  under  them.  Gualtier  tried  to  rally  his  voice.  "They 
say,"  said  he,  "  it  is  a  gentle  creature.  The  hares  that  feed  right  in 
front  of  the  house  are  a  proof  of  it: — let  us  all  stay."  The  others 
shook  their  heads,  and  spoke  in  whispers,  still  continuing  to  descend 
the  mound  as  well  as  they  could.  "  There  is  something  unnatural  in 
that  very  thing,"  said  the  Captain :  "  but  we  will  wait  for  you  in  the 
vessel,  if  you  stay.  We  will,  by  St.  Ermo."  The  Captain  had  not 
sujpposed  thai  Gualtier  would  stay  an  instant;  but  seeing  him  linger 
more  then  the  rest,  he  added  the  oath  in  question,  and  in  the  mean 
time  was  hastening  with  the  others  to  get  away  as  fast  as  possible. 
The  truth  is,  Gualtier  was,  in  one  respect,  more  frightened  than  any 
of  them.  His  legs  were  more  rooted  to  the  spot.  But  the  same  force 
of  imagination  that  helped  to  detain  him,  enabled  him  to  muster  up  a 
courage  beyond  those  who  found  their  wills  more  powerful ;  and  in 
the  midst  of  his  terror,  he  could  not  help  thinking  what  a  fine  adveur 
ture  this  would  be  to  telL  in  Salerno,  even  if  he  did  but  conceal  himself 
a  little,  and  stay  a  few  minutes  longer  than  the  rest.  The  thought 
however  had  hardly  c&me  upon  him,  when  it  was  succeeded  by  a  fear 
still  more  lively,  and  he  was  preparing  to  follow  the  others  with  all  the 
expedition  he  could  contrive,  when  a  fierce  rustling  took  place  in  the 
trees  behind  him',  and  in  an  instant  the  serpent's  head  was  at  his  feet 
Gualtier's  brain  as  well  as  heart  seemed  to  sicken,  as  he  thought  the 
monstrous  object  scented  him  like  a  bear;  but  despair  coming  in  aid 
of  a  courage  naturally  fanciful  and  chivalrous,  he  bent  his  eyes  more 
steadily,  and  found  the  huge  jaws  and  fangs  not  only  abstaining  from 
hurting  him,  but  crouching  and  fawning  at  his  feet  like  a  spaniel.  At 
the  same  time,  he  called  tc)  mind  the  old  legend,  respecting  the  creature  ; 
and  corroborated  as  he  now  saw  it,  he  ejaculated  with  good  firmuess^ 
5'  In  the  name  of  God  and  his  saints,  vf hat-art  thou  ?" 


THE  INDICATOR.  283 

"•'Hast  thou  not  heard  of  me?"  answered  the  serpent  in  a  voice, 
•whose  singular  human  slenderness  made  it  seem  the  more  horrible.  "  I 
guess  who  thou  art,"  answered  Gualtier :— "  the  fearful  thing  in  the 
island  of  Cos."  _ 

"  I  am  that  loathly  thing,"  replied  the  serpent ;  "  once  not  so." 
And  Gualtier  thought  that  its  voice  trembled  sorrowfully. 

The  monster  told  Gualtier  that  what  was  said  of  her  w^s  true  ;  that 
she  had  been  a  serpent  hundreds  of  years,  feeling  old  age  and  renewing 
her  youth  at  the  end  of  each  century;  that  it  was  a  curse  of  Diana's 
which  had  changed  her ;  and  that  she  was  never  to  resume  a  human 
form,  till  somebody  was  found,  kind  and  bold  enough  to  kiss  her  on 
the  mouth.  As  she  spoke  this  word,  she  raised  her  crest,  and  sparkled 
so  witli  her  fiery  green  eyes,  dilating  at  the  same  time  the  corners  of 
her  jaws,  that  the  young  man  thrilled  through  his  very  scalp.  He 
stept  back,  with  a  look  of  the  utmost  horror  and  loathing.  The  crea- 
ture gave  a  sharp  groan  inwardly,  and  after  rolling  her  neck  franticly 
on  the  ground,  withdrew  a  little  back  likewise,  and  seemed  to  be 
looking  another  way.  Gualtier  heard  two  or  three  little  sounds  as  of 
a  person  weeping  piteously,  yet  trying  to  subdue  it's  voice  ;  and  look- 
ing with  breathless  curiosity,  he  saw  the  side  of  the  loathly  creature's 
face  bathed  in  tears. 

"Why  speakest  thou,  lady,"  said  he,  "  if  lady  thou  art,  of  the 
curse  of  the  false  goddess  Diana,  who  never  was,  or  only  a  devil.  I 
cannot  kiss  thee,''— and  he  shuddered  with  a  horrible  shudder,  as  he 
spoke,  "  but  I  will  bless  thee  in  the  name  of  the  true  God,  and  even 
mark  thee  with  his  cross.'' 

The  serpent  shook  her  head  mournfully,  still  keeping  it  turned 
round.  Slie  then  faced  him  again,  hanging  her  head  in  a  dreary  and 
desponding  manner,  **  Thou  knowest  not''  said  she,  "  what  I  know. 
Diana  both  was,  and  never  was;  and  there  are  many  other  things  on 
earth,  which  are  and  yet  are  not'.  Thou  canst  not  comprehend  it, 
even  though  tliou  art  kind.  But  the  heavens  alter  not,  neither  the  sun 
nor  the  strength  of  nature :  and  if  thou  wert  kinder,  I  should  be  as  I 
once  was,  happy  and  human.  Suffice  it,  that  nothing  can  change  me 
but  what  I  said." 

*'  Why  wert  thou  changed,  thou  fearful  and  mysterious  thing  ?" 
said  Gualtier. 

"  Because  I  denied  Diana,  as  thou  dost,"  answered  the  serpent; 
*'  and  it  was  pronounced  an  awful  crime  in  me,  though  it  is  none  in  thee  ; 
and  I  was  to  be  made  a  thing  loathsome  in  men's  eyes.  Let  me  not 
catch  thine  eye,  I  beseech  thee;  but  ^  thy  way,  and  be  safe;  for  I 
feel  a  cruel  thought  .coming  on  me,  which  will  shake  my  innermost 
soul,  though  it  shall  not  harm  thee.  But  I  could  make  thee  suffer  for 
t)ie  pleasure  of  seeing  thine  anguish;  even  as  some  tyrants  do]:  and  is 
not  that  dreadful  ?'^  And  the  monster  openly  shed  tears,  and  sobbed. 
There  was  something  in  Uiis  mixture  of  avowed  cruelty  and  weeping 
contradiction  to  it,  which  made  Gualtier  remain  in  spite  of  himself. 
But  fear  was  still  uppermost  in  his  mind,  when  he  looked  upon  the 
mouth  that  was  to  be  kissed  ;  and  he  held  fast  round  a  tree  with  one 
hand  and  his  sword  ^s  fast  ia  the  other,  watching  the  movemettls  of 


284  THE  INDICATOR. 

her  neck  as  he  conversed.  '^  How  did  thy  father,  the  sage  Hippo- 
crates," asked  he,  "  suffer  thee  to  come  to  this  ?"  "  My  father," 
replied  she,  "  sage  and  good  as  he  was,  was  but  a  Greek  mortal ;  and 
the  great  Virgin  was  a  worshipped  Goddess.  I  pray  thee,  go.'*  She 
uttered  the  last  word  in  a  tone  of  loud  anguish  ;  but  the  very  horror 
of  it  made  Gualtier  hesitate,  and  he  said,  "  How  can  I  know  that  it  is 
not  thy  destiny  to  deceive  the  merciful  into  this  horrible  kiss,  that 
then  and  then  only  thou  mayst  devour  them  ?" 

But  the  serpent  rose  higher  at  this,  and  looking  around  loftily,  said 
in  a  mild  and  majestic  tone  of  voice,  "  Oh  ye  green  and  happy  woods, 
breathing  like  sleep !  Oh  safe  and  quiet  population  of  these  leafy 
places,  dying  brief  deaths!  Oh  sea!  Oh  earth!  Oh  heavens,  never 
uttering  syllable  to  man  !  Is  there  no  way  to  make  better  known  the 
meaning  of  your  gentle  silence,  of  your  long  basking  pleasures  and 
brief  pains  ?  And  must  the  want  of  what  is  beautiful  and  kind  from 
others,  ever  remain  different  from  Avhat  is  beautiful  and  kind  in  itself? 
.And  must  form  obscure  essence?  And  human  confidence  in  good  from 
within,  never  be  bolder  than  suspicion  of  evil  from  without?  Oh  ye 
large-looking  and  grand  benignities  of  creation,  is  it  that  we  are  atoms 
in  a  dream  ;  or  that  your  largeness  and  benignity  are  in  those  only  who 
see  them,  and  that  it  is  for  us  to  hang  over  ye  till  we  wake  you  into 
a  voice  with  our  kisses?  I  yearn  to  be  made  beautiful  by  one  kind 
action,  and  beauty  itself  will  not  believe  me!" 

Gualtier,  though  not  a  foolish  youth,  understood  little  or  nothing 
of  this  mystic  apostrophe;  but  something   or  other  made  him  bear  in 

'  mind,  and  really  incline  to  believe,  that  it  was  a  transformed  womaiv 
speaking  to  him  ;  and  he  was  making  a  violent  internal  effort  to  con- 
quer his  repugnance  to  the  kiss,  when  some  hares,  starting  from  him 
as  they  passed,  ran  and  cowered  behind  the  folds  of  the  monster :  and 
she  stooped  her  head,  and  licked  them.  "  By  Christ,"  exclaimed  he, 
''  whom  the  wormy  grave  gathered  into  it's  arms,  to  save  us  from  our 
corruptions,  I  will  do  this  thing;  so  may  he  have  mercy  on  my  soul, 
whether  I  live  or  die  :  for  the  very  hares  take  refuge  in  her  shadow." 
And  shuddering  and  shutting  his  eyes,  he  put  his  mouth  out  for  her 
to  meet ;  and  he  seemed  to  feel,  in  his  blindness,  that  dreadful  mouth 

.  approaching;  and  he  made  the  sign  of  the  cross ;  and, he  murmured 
internally  the  name  of  him  who  cast  seven  devils  out  of  Mary  Mag- 
dalen that  afterwards  anointed  his  feet;  and  in  the  midst  of  his  cou- 
rageous agony,  he  felt  a  small  mouth,  fast  and  warm  upon  his,  and  a 
hand  about  his  neck,  and  another  on  his  left  hand  ;  and  opening  his 
eyes,  he  dropped  them  upon  two  of  the  sweetest  that  ever  looked  into 
the  eye  of  nian.r— But  the  hares  fled ;  for  they  had  loved  the  serpent, 
and  knew  not  the  beautiful  human  being. 

Great  -vvas  the  fame  of  Gualtier  npt  only  throughout  all  the  Grecian 
islands,  but  on  both  continents ;  and  most  of  all  in  Sicily,  where  every 
one  of  his  countrymen  thought  he  had  had  a  hand  in  the  enterprize, 
:for  being  born  on  the  same  soil.  The  Captain  and  his  crew  never 
came  again  ;  for  alas,  they  had  gone  off  without  waiting  as  they  pro- 
mised. But  Tancred,  Prince  of  Salerno,  came  himself  with  a  knightly 
train  to  sec  Gujiltier;  who  lived  with  his  lady  in  the  same  place,  all 


THE  -INDICATOR.  285 

her  past  sufferings  appearing  as  ftothing  to  her  before  even  a  month  of 
lore  ;  and  even  sorrowful  habit  having  endeared  it  to  her.  Tancred, 
and  his  knights,  and  learned  clerks,  came  in  a  noble  ship,  every  oar 
having  a  painted  scutcheon  over  the  rovrlock :  and  Gualtier  and  his 
lady  feasted  them  nobly,  and  drank  to  them  amidst  music  in  cups  of 
Hippocras,— that  knightly  liquor  afterwards  so  renowned,  which  she 
retained  the  secret  of  making  from  her  sage  father,  whose  name  it  bore. 
And  when  King  Tancred,  with  a  gentle  gravity  in  the  midst  of  his 
mirth,  expressed  a  hope  that  the  beautiful  lady  no  longer  worshipped 
Diana,  Gualtier  said,  '  No  indeed.  Sir;"  and  she  looked  in  Gualtier's 
face,  as  she  sat  next  him,  with  the  sweetest  look  in  the  world,  as  who 
should  say,  '^  No  indeed  : — I  worship  thee  and  thy  kind  heart*.'' 


SALE  OF  THE  LATE  MR.  WESTS  PICTURES. 

It  is  a  villainous  thing  to  those  who  have  known  a  man  for  years, 
and  been  intimate  with  the  quiet  inside  of  his  house,  privileged  from 
intrusion,  to  see  a  sale  of  his  goods  going  on  upon  the  premises.  It  is 
often  not  to  be  helped,  and  what  he  himself  wishes  and  enjoins;  but 
still  it  is  a  villainous  necessity, — a  hard  cut  to  some  of  one's  oldest  and 
tenderest  recollections.  There  is  a  sale  of  this  kind  now  going  on  in 
the  house  we  spoke  of  last  week.  AVe  spoke  of  it  then  under  an  im- 
pulse not  easy  to  be  restrained,  and  not  difficult  to  be  allowed  us ; 
and  we  speak  of  it  now  under  another.  We  were  returning  the  day 
before  yesterday  from  a  house,  where  we  had  been  entertained  with 
lively  accounts  of  foreign  countries  and  the  present  features  of  the 
time,  when  we  saw  the  door  in  Newman-street  standing  wide  open, 
and  disclosing  to  every  passenger  a  part  of  the  gallery  at  the  end  of 
the  hall.  All  our  boyhood  came  over  us,  with  the  recollection  of 
those  who  had  accompanied  us  into  that  house.  We  hesitated 
whether  we  should  go  in,  and  see  an  auction  taking  place  of  the  old 
quiet  and  abstraction;  but  we  do  not  easily  suffer  an  unpleasant  and 
vulgar  association  to  overcome  a  greater  one;  and  besides,  how  could 
we  pass  ?  Having  passed  the  threshold,  without  the  ceremony  of  the 
smiling  old  porter,  we  found  a  worthy  person  sitting  at  the  door  of  the 
gallery,  who  on  hearing  our  name,  seemed  to  have  old  times  come 
upon  him  as  much  as  ourselves,  and  was  very  warm  in  his  services. 
We  entered  the  gallery,  which  we  had  entered  hundreds  of  times  in 
childhood,  by  the  side  of  a  mother,  who  used  to  speak  of  the  great  per- 
sons and  transaction  in  the  pictures  on  each  side  of  her  with  a  hushing 
reverence  as  if  they  were  really  present.     But  the  pictures  were  not 

'  *  Tltis  story  is  founded  on  ai  tradition  still  preserved  in  the  Island  of  Cos,  and 
repealed  in  old  romances  and  books  of  travels.  See  Duulop's  History  of  FfcUoii, 
vol.2,  where  he  gives  an  account  of  Tiruiile  the  While. 


388    .    ^  THE  INDICATOR. 

there — neither  Cupid  with  his  cloves,  nor  Agrlppina  with  the  ashes 
of  GermaniQus,  nor  the  Angel  slaying  the  army  of  Sennacheribj  nor 
Death  on  the  Pale  Horse,  nor  Jesus  healing  the  Sick,  nor  the  Deluge, 
nor  Moses  on  the  Mount,  nor  King  Richard  pardoning  his  brother 
John,  nor  the  Installation  of  the  old  Knights  of  the  Garter,  nor  Greek 
and  Italian  stories,  nor  the  landscapes  of  Windsor  Forest,  nor  Sir 
Philip  Sydney,  mortally  wounded^  giving  up  the  water  to  the  dying  Sol- 
dier. They  used  to  cover  the  wall ;  but  now  'there  were  only  a  few 
engravings.  The  busts  and  statues  also  were  gone.  But  there  was 
the  graceful  little  piece  of  garden  as  usual,  lyith  it's  grass  plat  and  it's 
clumps  of  lilac.  They  could  not  move  the  grass  plat,  even  to  sell  it. 
Turning  to  the  left,  there  was  the  privileged  study,  which  we 
used  to  enter  between  the  Venus  de  Medicis  and  the  ApoHo  of  the 
Vatican.  They  were  gone,  like  their  mythology.  Beauty  and  intel- 
lect were  no  longer  waiting  on  each  side  of  the  door.  Turning  again, 
we  found  the  longer  part  of  the  gallery  like  the  other ;  and  in  the  vista 
through  another  room,  the  auction  was  going  on.  We  saw  a  throng 
of  faces  of  business  with  their  hats  on,  and  heard  the  hard-hearted 
knocks  of  the  hammer,  in  a  room  which  used  to  hold  the  mild  and  soli- 
tary Artist  at  his  work,  and  which  had  never  been  entered  but  with 
quiet  steps  and  a  face  of  consideration.  We  did  not  stop  a  minute. 
In  the  room  between  this  and  the  gallery,  huddled  up  in  a  corner, 
were  the  busts  and  statues  which  had  given  us  a  hundred  thoughts. 
Since  the  days  when  we  first  saw  them,  we  have  seen  numbers  like 
them,  and  many  of  more  valuable  materials  ;  for  though  good  of  their 
kind,  and  of  old  standing,  they  are  but  common  plaister.  But  the 
thoughts  and  the  recollections  belonged  to  no  others  j  and  it  appeared 
sacrilege  to  see  them  in  that  state. 

Apollo  from  liis  slirine 

Can  no  more  divine  : 
«      *      »      »      •      » 

And  each  peculiar  Power  foregoes  Ms  \tonted  seat. 

Into  the  parlour,  which  opens  out  of  the  hall  and  into  the  gar- 
den, we  did  not  look.  We  scarcely  know -why;  but  we  did  not. 
In  that  parlour,  we  used  to  hear  of  our  maternal  ancestors,  stout  yet 
kind-hearted  Englishmen,  who  set  up  their  tents  with  Penn  in  the 
wildernes.s.  And  there  we  learnt,  to  unite  the  love  of  freedom 
with  that  of  the  graces  of  life ;  for  our  host,  though  born  a  Qua- 
ker, and  appointed  a  royal  painter,  and  not  so  warm  in  his  feelings 
as  those  about  him,  had  all  the  natural  amenity  belonging  to  those 
ijraces,  and  never  truly  lost  sight  of  that  love  of  freedom.  Thefe  we 
grew  up  acquainted  with  the  divine  humanities  of  Raphael.  There 
we  remember  a  large  ccloured  print  of  the  old  lion-hunt  of  Rubens, 
in  which  the  boldness  of  the  action  and  the  glow  of  the  colouring  over- 
come the  horror  of  the  struggle.  And  there,  long  before  we  know  any 
thing  of  Ariosto,  we  were  as  familiar  as  young  playmates  with  the 
beautiful  Angelica  and  Medoro,  who  helped  to  fill  our  life  with  love. 

May  a  blessing  be  upon  that  house,  and  upon  all  who  know  how  to 
value  the  genius  of  it. 


THE  INDICATOR.  ^S7 


THE  BEE  AND  THE  KISS. 

The  following  k  an  extract  from  the  Editor's  Translation  of  Tasso's 
Amyntas,  which  is  now  ready  to  appear.  It  is  Amyntas  himself, 
who  is  speaking. 

One  day,  Sylvia  and  Pliillis 

Were  sitting  underneath  a  shady  beecli, 

I  with  them;  when  a  little  ingenious  bee, 

Gathering  his  honey  in  those  flowery  fields, 

Lit  on  the  cheeks  of  Phillis,  cheeks  as  red 

As  the  red  rose;  and  bit,  and  bit  again 

With  so  much  eagerness,  that  it  appeared 

The  likeness  did  beguile  him.     Phillis,  at  this. 

Impatient  of  the  smart,  sent  up  a  cry; 

"Hush!  Hush!"  said  my  sweet  Sylvia,  *' do  ngt  grieve; 

I  have  a  few  words  of  enchantment,  Phillis, 

Will  ease  thee  of  this  little  suffering. 

The  sage  Artesia  told  them  me,  and  had 

That  little  ivory  hora  of  mine  in  payment. 

Fretted  witli  gold."     So  saying,  she  applied 

To  the  hurt  cheek,  the  lips  of  her  divine 

And  most  delicious  mouih,  and  with  sweet  humming 

Murmured  some  verses  that  I  knew  not  of. 

Oil  admirable  effect !  a  little  while, 

And  all  the  pain  was  gone  ;  either  by  virtue 

Of  those  enchanted  words,  or  as  I  thought, 

By  virtue  of  those  lips  of  dew. 

That  heal  whate'er  they  turn  them  to. 

I,  who  till  then  had  never  had  a  wish 

Beyond  the  sunny  sweetness  of  iter  eyes. 

Or  her  dear  dulcet  words,  more  dulcet  far 

Than  the  soft  murmur  of  a  humming  stream 

Crooking  its  way  among  tiie  pebble-stones. 

Or  summer  airs  that  babble  in  the  leaves, 

Felt  a  new  wish  move  in  me  to  apply 

This  mouth  of  mine  to  hers;  and  so  becoming 

Crafty  and  plotting,  (as  unusual  art 

With  me,  but  it  was  love's  intelligence) 

I  did  bethink  me  of  a  gentle  stratagem 

To  work  out  my  new  wit.     I  made  pretence, 

As  if  the  bee  had  bitten  my  under  lip  ; 

And  fell  to  lamentations  of  sueh  sort. 

That  the  sweet  medicine  which  I  dared  not  ask 

With  word  of  mouth,  I  asked  for  with  my  looks. 

The  simple  Sylvia  then, 

Compassioning  my  pain, 

Offered  to  give  her  help 

To  that  pretended  wound  ; 

And  oh  !  the  real  and  the  mortal  wound. 

Which  pierced  into  my  being. 

When  her  lips  came  on  mine. 

Never  did  bee  from  flower 

Suck  sug;ar  so  divine. 

As  was  the  honey  that  I  gathered  then 

From  those  twin  roses  fresh. 

I  could  have  bathed  in  them  my  burning  kisses, 

But  fear  and  shame  withheld 

That  too  audacious  fire. 

And  made  them  gently  hang. 


288  THE  INDICATOR. 

But  wliile  into  my  bosom's  core,  the  eweetness. 

Mixed  will)  a  secret  poison,  did  fio  down. 

It  pierced  me  no  with  pleasure,  that  still  ffigning 

The  pain  of  the  bee's  weapon,  I  contrived 

Tliat  more  than  once  the  enchantment  was  repeated. 

From  that  time  forth,  desire 

And  irrepressible  pain  grew  so  within  me. 

That  not  being  able  to  contain  it  more, 

I  was  compelled  to  speak ;  and  so,  one  day, 

While  in  a  circle  a  whole  set  of  us. 

Shepherds  and  nymphs,  sat  playing  at  the  game. 

In  which  they  tell.in  one  another's  ears 

Their  secret  each,  '*  Sylvia,"  said  I  in  her's, 

'*  I  burn  for  thee;  and  if  thou  help  me  not, 

I  feel  I  cannot  live."     As  I  said  this, 

She  dropt  her  lovely  looks,  and  out  of  them 

There  came  a  sudden  and  unusual  flush, 

Portending  shame  and  anger:  not  an  answer 

Did  she  vouchsafe  me,  but  by  a  dread  silence, 

Broken  at  last  by  threats  more  terrible. 

Stie  parted  then,  and  would  not  hear  nie  more, 

Nor  see  me.     And  now  three  times  the  naked  reaper 

Has  clipped  the  spiky  harvest,  and  a^ often 

The  winter  shaken  down  from  the  fair  woods 

Their  tresses  green,  since  I  have  tried  in  vain 

Every  thing  to  appease  her,  except  death. 

Nothing  remains  indeed  but  that  I  die  I 

And  I  shall  die  with  pleasure,  being  certain. 

That  it  will  either  please  her,  or  be  pitied ; 

And  I  scarce  know,  which  of  the  two  to  hope  for. 

Pity  perhaps  would  more  remunerate 

My  faith,  more  recompence  my  death;  but  still 

I  mu&t  not  hope  for  aught  that  would  disturb 

The  sweet  and  quiet  shining  of  her  eyes. 

And  trouble  that  fair  bosom,  built  of  bliss. 


Printed  and  published  by  Joseph  Applgtard,  No.  19,  Catlierine>8treet,  Strand. 
Price  2d. — And  sold  also  by  A.  GlidDon,  Importer  of  Snuffs,  No.  31,  Tavistock- 
etreet,  Covent-garden.  Orders  received  at  the  above  places,  and  by  all  Book- 
sellers aud  Newsmen. 


THE    INDICATOR. 

There  he  arriving  round  about  doth  flie, 
And  takes  survey  with  busie  curious  eye : 
Now  this,  now  that,  he  tasteth  tenderly. 

Spensbr. 


No.  XXXVII.—WEDNESDAY,  JUNE  21st,   1820. 


A  RAINY  DAY. 
TuE  day  that  we  speak  of  is  a  complete  one  of  it's  kind,  begianing 
with  a  dark  wet  morning  aad  ending  in  a  drenching  night.  When  you 
come  down  stairs  from  your  chamber,  you  find  the  breakfast- room 
looking  dark,  the  rain-spout  pouring  away,  and  unless  you  live  in  a 
street  of  traffic,  no  souml  out  of  doors  but  a  clack  of  pattens  and  aa 
occasional  clang  of  railk-pails.  (Do  you  see  the  rogue  of  a  milkman? 
He  is  leaving  them  open  to  catch  the  rain.) 

We  never  see  a  person  going  to  the  window  on  such  a  morning,  to 
take  a  melancholy  look  put  at  the  washed  houses  and  pavement,  but 
we  think  of  a  re-animation  which  we  once  beheld  of  old  Tate  Wilkin^ 
son.     Bat  observe  how  sour  things  may  run  into  pleasant  tastes  at  last. 
We  are  by  no  means  certain  that  the  said  mimetic  antique,  Tate  WH* 
Jiinson,  was  not  Patentee  of  the  York  Theatre,  wore  a  melan9holy  liat 
'  tied  the  wrong  way,  and  cast  looks  of  unalterable  dissatisfaction  at  a. 
rainy  morning,  purely  to  let  bis  worthy  successor  and  surpasser  in. 
mimicry,  Mr.  Charles  Mathews,  hand  down  his  aspect  and  counter 
nance  for  the  benefit  of  posterity.     We  once  fell  into  company  with 
that  ingenious  person  at  a  bachelor's  house,  where  he  woke  us  in  the 
morning  with  the  suspicious  sound  of  a  child  crying  in  another  room. 
It  was  having  it's  face  washed;  and  had  we  been  of  a  scandalizing 
tufn,  or  envied  our  host  for  his  hospitality,  we  sboald  certainly  have 
gone  and  said  that  there  was  a  child  in  his  house  who  inherited  a  sor- 
rowful disposition  from  somebody,  and  who  might  be  heard  (for  all 
the  nurse's  efforts  of  a  morning)  whining  and  blubbering  in  the  inter- 
vals of  the  wash-towel ; — now  bursting  into  open-mouthed  complaint 
as  it  left  him  to  dip  in  the  water ;  and  anon,  as  it  came  over  his  face 
again,  screwing  up  it's  snubbed  features  and  «yes,  and  making  half- 
stifled  obstinate  moan  with  his  tight  mouth.    The  mystery  was  ex- 
plained at  breakfast ;  and  as  it  happened  to  be  a  rainy  morniag,  we 
were  entertained  with,  the  re-animation  of  that  "  living  dead  man'* 
poor  Tate  aforesaid,— -who  had  been  a  merry  fellow  too  in  his  day- 
Imagine  a  tall  thin  withered  desponding-looking  old  gentleman,  enter- 
ing bis  breakfast-room  with  an  old  hat  on  tied  under  his  chin  the 
wrong  way  of  the  flap, — a  beaver  somewhat  of  the  epicene  order,  so 
that  you  60  not  know  whether  it  is  his  wife's  or  his  own.     He  hobbles 
and  shrinks  up  to  the  window,  grunting  gently  with  a  sort  of  preDa» 
tatory  despair  j  and  having  cast  up  his  ey^s  at  the  air,  and  seen  the 
weathercock  due  east  and  tlte  rain  set  in  besides,  drops  the  corners  of 
his  mouth  and  eyes  into  an  expression  of  double  despondency,  not  un- 


290  THE  INDICATOR. 

mixed  (if  we  may  speak  unprofanely)  with  a  sort  of  scornful  resent- 
ment; and  turns  off  with  one  solitary,  brief,  comprehensive,  and' 
groaning  ejaculation  of  "  Eh-^Christl" — We  never  see  any  body  go 
to  the  window  of  a  rainy  morning,  but  we  think  of  this  poor  old  baro« 
meter  of  a  Patentee,  whose  face,  we  trust,  will  be  handed  down  in  sue* 
cessive  fac-similes  to  posterity,  for  their  edification  as  well  as  amuse- 
ment ;  for  Tate  had  cultivated  much  hypochondriacal  knowledge  in  J 
his  time,  and  been  a  sad  fellow  in  a  merry  sense  before  he  took  to  it  ia 
it's  melancholy  one. 

The  preparation  for  a  rainy  day  in  town  is  certainly  not  the  plea^ 
santest  thing  in  the  Avorld,  especially  for  those  who  have  neither  ■. 
health  nor  imagination  to  make  their  own  sunshine.  The  comparative* 
silence  in  the  streets,  which  is  made  dull  by  our  knowing  the  cause  oi 
it, — the  window-panes  drenched  and  ever-streaming,  like  so  many" 
helpless  cheeks, — the  darkened  rooms, — and  at  this  season  of  the  year, 
the  having  left  off  fires  ; — all  fall  like  a  chill  shade  upon  the  spirits. 
But  we  know  not  how  much  pleasantry  can  be  made  out  of  unplea- 
santness, till  we  bestir  ourselves.  The  exercise  of  our  bodies  will 
make  us  bear  the  weather  better,  even  mentally  ;  and  the  exercise  of 
our  minds  will  enable  us  to  bear  it  with  patient  bodies  in-doors,  if  we 
cannot  go  out.  Above  all,  some  people  seem  to  think  that  they  can- 
not have  a  fire  made  in  a  chill  day,  because  it  is  suramer«time,— a  no- 
tion which,  under  the  guise  of  being  seasonable,  is  quite  the  reverse, 
and  one  against  which  we  protest.  A  fire  is  a  thing  to  warm  us  when 
-we  are  cold  ;  not  to  go  out  because  the  name  of  the  month  begins 
with  J.  Besides,  the  sound  of  it  helps  to  dissipate  that  of  the  rain. 
It  is  justly  called  a  companion.  It  lookj  glad  in  our  faces ;  it  talks 
to  us  ;  it  is  vivified  at  our  touch ;  it  vivifies  in  return  ;  it  puts  life, 
at\d  warmth,  and  comfort  in  the  room.  A  good  fellow  is  bound  to 
see  that  he  leaves  this  substitute  for  his  company  when  he  goes  out, 
especially  to  a  lady  ;  whose  solitary  work-table  in  a  chill  room  on 
such  a  day  is  a  very  melancholy  refuge.  We  exhort  her,  if  she  can 
atford  it,  to  take  a  book  and  a  footstool,  and  plant  herself  before  a 
good  fire.  We  know  of  few  baulks  more  complete,  than  coming 
down  of  a  chill  morning  to  breakfast,  turning  one's  chair  as  usual  to 
the  fire-side,  planting  one's  feet  on  the  fender  and  one's  eyes  on  tk 
book,  and  suddenly  discovering  that  there  is  no  fire  in  the  grate.  A 
grate,  that  ought  to  have  a  fire  in  it,  and  gapes  in  one's  face  with  none, 
is  like  a  cold  grinning  empty  rascal. 

There  is  something,  we  think,  not  disagreeable  in  issuing  forth  dur- 
ing a  good  honest  summer  rain,  with  a  coat  well  buttoned  up  and  an 
umbrella  over  our  heads.  Thie  first  flash  open  of  the  umbrella  seems 
a  defiance  to  the  shower,  and  the  sound  of  it  afterwards,  over  our  dry 
heads  corroborates  the  triumph.  If  we  are  in  this  humour,  it  does 
not  matter  how  drenching  the  day  is.  We  despise  the  expensive  effe- 
minacy of  a  coach  ;  have  an  agreeable  malice  of  self-content  at  the 
sight  of  crowded  gateways  ;  and  see  nothing  in  the  furious  little  rain- 
spouts,  but  a  lively  emblem  of  critical  oposition, — weak,  low,  washy, 
and  dirty,  gabbling  away  with  a  perfect  impotence  of  splutter. 

Speaking  of  malice,  there  are  even  some  kinds  of  legs  which  aflfor<J 
us  a  lively  pleasure  in  beholding  them  splashed, 
Ladt.  I^ord,  you  cruel  man ! 


THE  INDICATOR.  '         29l. 

Indicator.  Nay,  I  was  not  speaking  of  your's,  Madam.  How- 
could  I  wish  ill  to  any  such  very  touching  stockings  ?  And  yet,  now 
I  think  of  it,  there  are  very  gentle  and  sensitive  legs,  (I  say  nothing 
of  beautiful  ones,  because  all  gentle  ones  are  beautiful  to  rae)  which  it 
is  possible  to  behold  in  a  very  earthy  plight ; — at  least  the  feet  and 
aaclts. 

L,  And  pray,  Sir,  what  are  the  very  agreeable  circumstances  under 
which  we  are  to  be  mudded  ? 

Indic.  Fancy,  Madam,  a  walk  with  spme  particular  friend,  between 
the  showers,  in  a  green  lane;  the  sun  shining,  the  hay  sweet  smelling, 
the  glossy  leaves  sparkling  like  children's  cheeks  after  tears.  Suppose 
this  lane  not  to  be  got  into,  but  over  a  bank  and  a  brook,  and  a  good 
savage  assortment  of  waggon-ruts.  Yet  the  sunny  green  so  takes  you, 
and  you  are  so  resolved  to  oblige  your  frierfd  with  a  walk,  that  you 
hazard  a  descent  down  the  slippery  bank,  a  jump  over  the  brook,  a 
leap  (that  will  certainly  be  too  short)  over  the  ploughed  mud.  Do 
you  think  that  a  good  thick-mudded  shoe  and  a  splashed  instep  would 
not  have  a  merit  in  his  barbarous  eyes,  beyond  even  the  neat  outline 
of  the  Spanish  leather  and  the  symbolical  whiteness  of  the  stocking? 
Ask  him. 

L.  Go  to  yo'jT  subject,  do,        , 

Indic.  Well,  I  will.  You  may  always  know  whether  a  person, 
wishes  you  a  pleasant  or  unpleasant  adventure,  by  the  pleasure  or  pain 
he  has  in  your  company.  If  he  would  be  with  you  himself  (and  I 
should  like  to  know  the  pleasant  situation,  or  even  the  painful  one,  if 
a  share  of  it  can  be  made  pleasant,  in  which  we  would  not  have  a 
woman  with  us),  you  may  rest  assured  that  all  the  mischief  he  wishes 
you  is  very  harmless. — At  the  same  time,  if  there  are  situations  in 
which  one  could  wish  ill  even  to  a  lady's  leg,  there  are  legs  and  stock- 
ings which  it  is  possible  to  fancy  well-splashed  upon  a  very  different 
principle. 

Gentleman.  Pray,  Sir,  who-se  may  those  be  ? 

Indic  Not  yours.  Sir,  with  that  delicate  flow  of  trowser,  and  that 
careless  yet  genteel  stretch  out  of  toe.  There  is  an  humanity  in  the 
air  of  it, — a  graceful  but  at  the  same  time  manly  sympathy  with  the 
drapery  beside  jt.  I  allude,  sir,  to  one  of  those  portentous  legs^ 
which  belong  to  an  over-fed  money-getter,  or  to  a  bulky  methodist 
parson  who  has  doating  dinners  got  up  for  hiiii  by  his  hearers.  You 
know  the  leg  I  mean.  It  is  "  like  unto  the  sign  of  the  leg,"  only 
larger.  Observe,  I  do  not  mean  every  kind  of  large  leg.  The  same 
thing  is  not  the  same  thing  in  every  one, — if  you  understand  that  pro- 
found apophthegm.  As  a  leg,  indifferent  in  itself,  may  become  very 
charming,  if  it  belongs  to  a  charming  owner;  so  even  when  it  is  of  the 
cast  we  speak  of  in  a  man,  it  becomes  more  or  less  unpleasant  accord- 
ing to  his  nature  and  treatment  of  it.  I  am  not  carping  at  the  leg  of 
an  ordinary  jolly  fellow,  which  good  temper  as  well  as  good  living 
helps  to  plump  out,  and  which  he  is,  after  all,  not  proud  of  exhibiting  ; 
keeping  it  modestly  in  a  boot  or  trowsers,  and  despising  the  starched 
ostentation  of  the  other:  but  at  a  regular,  dull,  uninformed,  hebetu- 
dinous,  "  gross,  open,  and  palpable"  leg,  whose  calf  glares  npon  you 
like  the  ground-glass  of  a  postchaise  lamp.  In  the  parson  it  is  some- 
what obscured  by  a  black  stocking.     A  white  one  is  requisite  to  dis-. 


592  THE  INDICATOR. 

play  it  in  all 'it*s  gloty.  It  has  a  large  balustrade  calf,  an  ancle  that 
WQuld  be  moDStrous  In  any  other  man,  but  looks  ^raall  from  the  contrast, 
a  tight  knee  well  buttoned,  and  a  seam  inexorably  in  the  middle.  It  is 
a  leg  atonee  gross  and  symbolical.  It's  size  is  made  up  of  plethora 
and  Sruperfluity  ;  it's  white  cotton  stocking  affects  a  propriety ;  it's  in- 
flexible seam  and  side  announce  the  man  of  clock-work.  A  doken 
haf  d-worked  dependants  go  at  least  to  the  making  up  of  that  leg.  If  in 
black,' it  is  the  essence  of  infinite  hams  at  old  ladies'  Sunday  dinners. 
Now  we  likb  to  See  a' couple  of  legs,  of  this  sort,  in  white,  kicking 
their  way  through  a  muddy  street,  and  splashed  unavoidably  as  they 
go,  till  their  horrid  glare  is  subdued  into"  spottiness.  A  lamp-lighter's 
ladder  is  of  use,  to  give  them  a  passing  spurn:  upon  which  the  pro- 
prietor^ turning  round  to  swear,  is  run  against  in  front  by  a  wheel-  • 
barrow  ;  upon  which,  turning  round  again,  to  swear  worse,  he  thrusts 
his  heel  upon  the  beginning  of  a  loose  stone  in  the  pavement,  and  re- 
ceives his  final  baptism  from  a  fount  of  mud. 

Our  limits  compel  us  to  bring  this  article  to  a  speedier  conclusion, 
than  we  thought;  and  to  say  the  truth,  we  are  not  sorry  for  it;  for 
we  happened  to  break  off  here  in  order  to  write  the  one  following,  and 
it  has  not  left  us  in  a  hu'mour  to  return  to  our  jokes. 

We  must  therefore  say  little  of  a  world  of  things  we  intended  to 
descant  on-j—iof  pattens,— and  caves,— and  hackney-coaches,— and 
waiting  in  vain  to  go  out  on  a  party  of  pleasure,  while  the  youngest  of 
us  insists  every  minute  that  "  it  is  going  to  hold  up," — and  unibrtllas 
dripping  on  one's  shoulder.— and  the  abomination  of  soaked  gloves, — 
and  standing  up  ia  gateways,  when  you  hear  now  and  then  the  passing 
roar  of  rain  on  an  umbrella, — and  glimpses  of  the  green  country  at  the 
end  of'Streets,— and  the  foot-mfarked  earth  of  the  country-roads,— and 
clouds  eternally  following  each  other  from  the  west,— and  the  scent  of 
the  luckless  new-mown  hay, — and  the  rainbow,— and  the  glorious 
thunder  and  lightning,— and  a  party  waiting  to  go  home  at  night, — and 
last  of  all,  the  delicious  moment  of  taking  oft'  your  M-et  things,  and 
resting  in  the  dry  and  warm  content  of  your  gown  and  slippers. 


THE  VENETIAN  GIRL. 


The  sun  was  shining  beautifully  one  summei*  evening,  as  if  he  bade 
sparkling  farewell  to  a  world  which  he  had  made  happy.  It  seemed 
also  by  his  looks,  as  if  he  promised  to  make  his  appearance  again  to- 
jnorrow;  but  there  M^as  at  times  a  deep  breathing  western  wind,  and 
dfirk  purplte  clouds  came  up  here  and  there,  like  gorgeous  waiters  on 
a  funeral.  The  children  in  a  village  not  far  from  the  metropolis  were 
playing  however  on  the  green,  content  with  the  brightness  of  the  mo- 
ment, when  they  saw  a  female  approaching,  who  instantly  gathered 
them  about  her  by  the  singularity  of  her  dress.  It  was  not  very  extra- 
ordinary ;  but  any  difference  from  the  usual  apparel  of  their  country- 
women appeared  so  to  them ;  and  crying  out  "  A  French  girl !  a 
French  girl !"  they  ran  up  to  her^  and  stood  looking  and  talking.  She 
Seated  herself  upon  a  bench  that  was  fixed  between  two  elms,  and  for 
a  raoinent  leaned  her  head  agaiast  one  of  them,  as  if  faint  with  walking. 


THE  INDICATOR.  293 

Bilt  she  raised  if  speedily,  and  smiled  with  great  complacency  on- the 
rude  urchins.  She  had  a  boddice  and  petticoat  on  of  different  colours, 
and  a  handkerchief  tied  neatly  about  her  head  with  the  point  behind* 
On  her  hands  were  gloves  Vvithout  fitigersi  and  she  wore  about  her 
neck  a  guitar, upon  the  strings  of  which  one  of  her  hands  rested.  The 
children  thought  her  very  handsome.  Any  body  else  would  also  ha?e 
thought  her  very  ill,  but  they  saw  nothing  in  her  but  a  good-natured 
looking  foreigner  and  a  guitar,,  and  they  asked  her  to  play.  *'  Oh  che 
bei  ragazzil"  said  she,  in  a  soft  and  almost  inaudible  Toice; — "Che 
vrsi  lieti*  I"  and  she  began  to.  play.     She  tried  to  sing  too,  but  her 

o  voice  failed  her,  and  she  shook  her  head  smilingly,  saying  "  Stanca  ! 
Stanca+1"  "Sing: — do  sing,"  said  the  chilcTren ;  and  nodding  |ber 
head,  she  was  trying  to  do  so,  when  a  set  of  school-boys  came  up,  aud 
joined  in  the  request.  "  No,  no,"  said  one  of  the  elder  boys,  "  she 
is  not  well.  You  are  ill,  a'nt  you, — Miss?"  added  he,  laying  his 
hand  upon  her's  as  if  to  hinder  it.  IIu  drew  out  the  last  word 
somewhat  doubtfully,  for  her  appearance  perplexed  him  ;  he 
scarcely  knew  whether  to  take  her  for  a  common  stroller  or  a  lady 
strayed  from  a  sick  bed.  "Grazie!"  said  she,  understandiitg  his 
look : — "  troppo  stanca  :  troppo.''  if     By  this  time   the  usher  came 

.  up,^  and  addressed  her  in  French,  but  she  only  understood  a  word 
here  and  there.,  He  then  spoke  Latin,  and  she  repeated  one  or  two 
of  his  words,  as  if  they  Avere  familiar  to  her.  *'  She  is  an  Italian  ;*' 
said  he,  looking  round  with  a  good-natured  importance;  "  for  the 
Italian  is  but  a  bastard  of  the  Jjatin."  The  children  looked  with  the 
more  wonder,  thinking  he  was  speaking  of  the  fair  Musician.  *'  Noii 
dubj^,<>,"  continued  the  Usher,  "  quin  tu  lectiias  poetam  ilium  cele- 
berfeji,iiim,  Tassonem  ;§  Taxum,  1  should  say  properly,  but  the  de- 
parture from  the  Italian  name  is  considerable."  The  stranger  did  not 
understand  a  word.  "  I  spejik  of  Tasso,"  said  the  Usher, — "  Of 
Tasso."  "  Tasso  !  Tasso  I"  repeated  the  fair  minstrel, — *'  oh — con- 
hosco — T^s-so  ;||   and   she  hung  with  an  accent  of  beautiful  langour 

'  upon  the  first  syllable.  "  Yes,"  returned  the  worthy  Scholar,  *^  doubt- 
less yonr  accent  may  be  better.  Then  of  course  you  know  those 
classical  lines— 

Inlanfo  Erminia  infra  I'ombrosy  pianly 
D'aiitica  tieiva  daJ  cavailu — whalisil?" 

The  stranger  repeated  the  words  in-a  tone  of  fondness,  like  those 
of  an  old  friend  : — 

lulanto  Erminia  infra  I'ombrose  piaitte 
P'antica  selva  dal  cavallo  e  scoria  ;  . 

Ne  piu  goveriio  il  fren  In  man  tremante, 
£  tnezza  quasi  par  tra  viva  e  morta.i 

*  Oh  what  fine  boys !  Wliat  happy  faces!  +  Weary  |  Weary! 

X  'thanks  : — too  weary  !  loo  weary! 

§  Doubtless  you  read  that  celebrated  poet  Ta^so. 

U  Oh— I  know  Tasso. 

5  Meautima  in  the  old  wood,  the  palfrey  bore 
Erminia  deeper  into  shade  and  shade ; 
Her  trembling  hands  could  hiald  him  in  no  (norei 
Audthe  ii|tpeared  hetwisi  ali^'e  and  dead. 


2&4  THE  INDICATOR. 

Our  iJsliter's  fcOmmon-place  book  had  supplied  him  with  a  fortunate 
passage,  for  it  was  the  favourite  song  of  her  countrymen.  It  also 
singularly  applied  to  her  situation.  There  was  a  sort  of  exquisite  mix- 
ture of  silver  clearhess  and  soft  mealiness  in  her  utterance  of  these 
verses,  which  gave  some  of  the  children  a  better  idea  of  French  than 
they  had  had ;  for  they  could  not  get  it  out  of  their  heads  that  she 
must  be  a  French  girl  ; — "  Italian-French  perhaps,"  said  one  of  them. 
But  her  voice  trembled  as  she  went  on  like  the  hand  she  spoke  of-  '*  I 
have  heard  my  poor  cousin  Montague  sing  those  very  lines,"  said 
the  boy  who  prevented  her  from  playing.  "  Montague,"  repeated  the 
stranger  very  plainly,  by^t  turning  paler  and  fainter.  She  put  one  of 
]ier  hands  in  turn  upon  tne  boys  affectionately,  and  pointed  towards 
the  spot  where  the  church  was.  "  Yes,  yes,"  cried  the  boy : — "  why 
she  knew  my  cousin  : — she  must  have  known  him  in  Venice.''  "  I 
told  you,"  said  the  Usher,  "  she  was  an  Italian." — "  Help  her  to  my 
aunfs,"  continued  the  youth,  "she'll  understand  her :— lean  upon 
me,  Miss ;"  and  he  repeated  the  last  word  without  his  former  hesi- 
tation. 

Only  a  few  boys  followed  her  io  the  door,  the  rest  having  been  awed 
away  by  the  Usher.  As  soon  as  the  stranger  entered  the  house,  and 
saw  an  elderly  lady  who  received  her  kindly,  she  exclaimed  "La 
Sigiiora  Madre,"  and  fell  in  a  SAVoon  at  her  feet. 

She  was  taken  to  bed,  and  attended  with  the  utmost  care  by  her 
hostess.  Mho  would  not  sutler  her  (otalk  till  she  had  had  a  sleep.  She 
merely  heard  enough  to  find  out  that  the  stranger  had  known  her  son 
irt  Italy  ;  and  she  was  thrown  into  a  painful  state  of  guessing  by  the 
px)or  girl's  eyes,  which  followed  her  about  the  room  till  the  lady  fairly 
came  up  and  closed  them.  "  Obedient  I  Obedient  1"  said  the  patient  ; 
"  obedient  in  every  thing:  only  the  Signora  will  let  me  kiss  her  hand;" 
and  taking  it  with  her  own  trembling  one  she  laid  her  cheek  upon  it, 
and  it  stayed  there  till  she  dropt  asleep  for  weariness. 

Silken  rest 

Tie  all  (liy  cares  up  ! 

though  her  kind  watcher,  who  was  doubly  thrown  upon  a  recollection 
of  that  beautiful  passage  in  Beaumont  and  Fletcher,  by  the  suspicion 
she  had  of  the  cause  of  the  girl's  visit,  "  And  yet,"  thought  she, 
turning  her  eyes  with  a  thin  tear  in  them  towards  the  church  spire,  "he 
w«s  an  e?Ceellent  boy, — the  boy  of  my  heart." 

When  the  si  ranger  woke,  the  secret  was  explained  :  and  if  the  mind 
of  her  hostess  was  relieved,  it  was  only  the  more  touched  with  pity, 
and  indeed  moved  with  respect  and  admiration.  The  dying  girl  (for 
she  was  evidently  dying,  and  happy  at  the  thought  of  it)  was  the  neice 
of  aahumble  tradesman  in  Venice,  at  whose  house  young  Montague, 
who  Ayas, a  gentleman  of  small  fortune,  had  lodged  and  fallen  sick  in  his 
trarels.i  She  was  a  lively  good-natured  girl,  whom  he  used  to  hear 
coquetting  and  playing  the  guitar  with  her  neighbours;  and  it  was 
greatly  on  this  account,  that  her  considerate  and  hushing  gravity  struck 
)iim  whenever  she  entered  his  room.  One  day  he  heard  no  more 
coquetting,  nor  even  the  guitar.  He  asked  the  reason,  when  she  came 
to  give  him  some  drink  ;  and  she  said  that  she  had  heard  him  mention 
some  noise  that  disturbed  him.  "  But  you  do  not  call  your  voice 
and  your  music  a  ndsc,"  said  he,  "  do  you,  Rosaura  J     I  hope  not, 


THE  INDICATOR.  29S 

fot  I  had  expected  it  would  give  me  double  strength  to  got  rid  of  this 
fever  and  reach-hoaic."  Rosatira'turned  pale,  and  let  the  patient  into 
a  secret;  but,  what  surprised  and  delighted  him  was,  that  she  played 
her  guitar  nearly  as  ofteii  as  before,  and  sung  too,  only  less  sprightly 
airs.  "  You  get  better  and  better,  Signer,"  said  she,  "  every  day  • 
andyour  mother  will  see  you  and  be  happy.  I  hope  you  will  tell  her 
what  a  good  doctor  you  had?" — "The  best'iu  the  world,"  cried  he, 
*'  and  as  he  sat  up  in  bed,  he  put  his  arm  rouud  her  waist,  and  kissed 
her.  "  Pardon  me,  Signora,"  said  the  poor  girl  to  her  hostess  ;  "  but 
I  felt  that  arm  round  my  waist  for  a  week  after  : — aye,  almost  as  much 
as  if  it  had  been  there."  "  A-tid  Charles  felt  that  you  did,"  thought: 
his  mother ;  "  for  he  never  told  ma  the  story." — "  He  begged  my 
pardon,"  continued  she,  "  a^  I  was  hastening  out  of  the  room,  and 
hoped  I  should  not  construe  his  warmth  into  impertinence :  and  to 
hear  him  talk  so  to  me,  who  used  to  fear  wltat  he  might  think  of  my- 
self,— it  made  me  stand  in  the  passage,  and  lean  my  head  against  the 
wall,  and  weep  such  bitter  and  yet  such  sweet  tears  !  But  he  did  not 
hear  them: — no.  Madam, he  did  not  know  indeed  how  much  I — ho\r 
much  I—"  "  Loved  him,  child,"  interupted  Mrs.  Montague  ;  "  you  have 
a  right  to  say  so  ;  and  I  wish  he  had  been  alive  to  say  as  much  to  you  him- 
self." "  Oh,  good  God  l"  said  the  dying  girl,  her  tears  flowing  away,  "  this 
is  too  great  a  happiness  for  me,— to  hear  his  own  mother  talking  so." 
And  again  she  lays  her  weak  head  upon  the  lady's  hand.  The  latter 
would  have  persuaded  her  to  sleep  again,  but  she  said  she  could  not 
for  joy  :  "  for  I'll  tell  you,  Madam,"  continued  she;  "  I  do  not  be- 
lieve you  will  think  it  foolish,  for  something  very  grave  at  my  heart 
tells  me  it  is  not  so ;  but  I  have  had  a  long  thought"  (and  her  voice 
and  look  grew  somewhat  more  exalted  as  she  spoke)  "  which  has  sup- 
ported me  through  much  toil  and  many  disagreeable  things  to  this 
country  and  this  place;  and  I  will  tell  you  what  it  is  and  how  it  tame 
into  my  mind.  I  received  this  letter  from  your  son."  Here  she  drew 
out  a  paper  which  though  carefully  wrapped  up  in  several  others  was 
much  worn  at  the  sides.  It  was  dated  from  the  village,  and  ran 
thus  J— "  This  comes  from  the  Englishman  whom  Rosaura  nursed  so 
kindly  at  Venice.  She  will  be  sorry  to  hear  that  her  kindness  was  in 
vain,  for  he  is  dying:  and  he  sometimes  fears,  that  her  sorrow  will  be 
still  greater  than  he  could  wish  it  to  be.  But  marry  one  of  your  kind 
countrymen,  my  good  girl ;  for  all  must  love  Rosaura  who  know  her. 
If  it  sliall  be  my  lot  ever  to  meet  her  in  heaven,  I  will  thank  her  as  a 
blessed  tongue  only  can."  As  soon  as  I  read  this  letter,  Madam,  and 
what  he  said  about  heaven,  it  flashed  iiito  my  head  that  though  I  did 
not  deserve  him  oa  e^irtB",  I  might  perhaps,  by  trying  and  patience, 
deserve  to  be  joined  with  him  in  heaven,  where  there  is  no  distinction 
of  persons.  My  uncle  was  pleased  to  see  me  become  a  religious  pil- 
grim :  but  he  knew  as  little  of  the  contract  as  I ;  and  I  found  that  I 
could  earn  ray  way  to  England  better  and  quite  as  religiously  by  play- 
ing my  guitar,  which  was  also  more  independent;  and  I  had  often 
heard  your  son  talk  of  independence  and  freedom,  and  commend  me 
for  doing  what  he  was  pleased  to  call  so  much  kindness  to  others.  So 
I  played  my  guitar  from  Venice  all  the  way  to  England,  and  all  that 
I  earned  by  it  I  gave  away  to  the  poor,  keeping  enough  to  precure 
me  lodging.    I  lived  on  bread  and  water,  and  used  to  weep  -happy 


2S6  THE  INDICATdR. 

tears  otor  U^  because  I  looUod  up  to  lifaven  and  thought  ho  might  see 
me.  I  have  sometimes,  though  not  often,  met  with  small  insults  ;  but 
if  ever  they  threatened  to  grow  greater,  I  begged  the  people  to  desist 
in  the  kinciest  way  I  could,  even  smiling,  and  saying  I  would  please 
them  if  1  had  the  heart ;  which  might  be  wrong,  but  it  seemed  as  if 
deep  thou£;hts  told  me  to  say  so ;  and  they  used  to  look  astoniflied, 
and  left  off;  which  made  me  the  more  hope  that  St.  Mark  and  th« 
Holy  Virgin  did  not  think  ill  of  my  endeavours.  So  playing,  and 
giving  alms  iu  this  manner,  I  arrived  in  the  neighbourhood  of  your 
beloved  village,  where  I  fell  sick  for  a  while  and  was  very  kiudly  treated 
in  an  outhouse ;  though  the  people,  I  thought,  seemed  to  look  strange 
and  afraid  on  this  crucifix, — though  your  son  never  did, — though  he 
taught  me  to  think  kindly  of  every  body,  and  hope  the  best,  and  leave 
every  thing  except  our  own  end«-avours  to  heaven.  I  fell  sick,  Madam, 
because  1  found  for  certaUi  that  the  Signor  Montague  was  dead,  albeit 
I  had  no  hope  that  he  was  alive."  She  stopped  awhile  for  breath,  for 
she  was  growing  weaker  and  weaker;  and  her  hostess  would  fain  have 
had  her  keep  silence  ;  but  she  pressed  her  hand  as  well  as  she  might, 
and  prayed  with  such  a  patient  panting  of  voice  to  be  allowed  to  go 

on,  that  she  was.  She  smiled  beautifully,  and  resumed  :— '*  So  when ► 

so  when  I  got  my  strength  a  little  again,  I  walked  on  and  came  to  the 
beloved  village;  and  I  saw  the  beautiful  Avhite  church  spire  in  the 
trees;  and  then  I  knew  where  his  body  slept;  and  I  thought  som« 
kind  person  would  help  me  to  die  with  my  face  looking  towards  the 
chdrch,  as  it  now  does— and  death  is  upon  me,  even  now  :  but  lift  me 
a  little  higher  on  tlie  pillows,  dear  lady,  that  I  may  see  the  green 
ground  of  tht  hill." 

She  was  raised  upas  she  wished, -and  after  looking  awhile  with  a 
placid  feebleness  at  the  hill,  said  in  a  very  low  voice— -"  Say  one 
prayer  for  me,  dear  lady,  and  if  it  be  not  too  proud  in  me,  call  me 
in  it  your  daughter."  The  mother  of  her  beloved  summoned  up  a 
grave  and  earnest  voice,  as  well  as  she  might,  and  knelt,  and  said, 
*'0  heavenly  Father  of  us  all,  who  in  the  midst  of  thy  manifold 
and  merciful  bounties  brisigest  us  into  strong  passes  of  anguish,  which 
nfevertheiess  thou  enablest  us  to  go  through,  look  down,  we  beseech 
thei?,  upon  this  thy  young  and  innocent  servant, — the  daughter,  that 
might  have  been,  of  my  heart,— and  enable  her  spirit  to  pass  through 
the  struggling  bonds  of  mortality  and  be  gathered  into  thy  rest  with 
those  wc  love  >  —  »do,  dear  and  gi"eat  God,  of  thy  infinite  mercy  ; 
for  we  are  poor  weak  creatures  both  j'oung  and  old"— here  her  voice 
tnelted  away  into,  a  breathing  tearfulness  ;  and  after  remaining  on  her 
knees  a  moment  longer,  she  rose,  and  looked  upon  the  bed,  and  saw 
that  the  weary  smiling  one  was  no  more. 


Prinlpd  and  publisliej  by  JosFjrn  Appletard,  No.  19,  Catherine-street,  Strand. 
Price  8d. — And  sold  also  by  A.  Gliddon,  Importer  of  Snuffs,  No.  81,  Tuvistock* 
street,, Covent-garden."  Orders  received  at  the  ubove  places,  and  by  all  Book* 
selifrs  and  Newsmen. rt 


THE    INDICATOR. 


There  Ue  arriving  round  about  doth  flie. 
And  takes  survey  with  busie  curious  eye: 
Kow  this,  now  that,  he  tasteth  tenderly. 

SpeNSER« 


No.  XXXVIII.— WEDNESDAY,  JUNE  28th,   1820. 


THE  EGYPTIAN  THIEF. 


Rhampsinitcs  was  the  richest  prince  that  ever  sat  on  the  Egyptian 
throne.  In  order  to  secure  his  treasures,  to  have  them  at  the  same  time 
near  him,  and  to  produce  their  effect  upon  the  public  mind  even  when  in- 
visible, he  had  a  great  stone  tovrer  built,  which  was  connected  with  the 
palace  by  a  wall.  In  this  tower,  which  seemed  as  blind  as  it  was  strong, 
(for  the  light  was  admitted  only  on  the  side  looking  into  one  of  the  palace 
gardens) — in  this  tower  were  the  cups,  and  the  goblets,  and  the  golden 
bars,  and  the  costly  stuflfs,  and  the  colours,  and  the  spices,  and  the 
precious  stones,  and  the  pillars  of  emerald,  and  the  curious  carved 
images,  and  thousands  upon  (Jiousands  of  talents  of  gold.  The  people 
looked  up  to  the^reat  tower,  and  thought  of  it's  many  rooms,  and  con- 
sidered the  shining  treasure  which  illuminated  the  other  side  of  those 
stone  walls  like  the  light  of  a  divine  presence  ;  and  they  walked  about, 
awe-stricken  as  the  stranger  at  the  sight  of  the  Pyramids,  and  said 
humbly  to  themselves,  "  Great  is  the  glory  of  Rhampsinitus." 

But  a  wonder  was  to  fall  upon  Rhampsinitus  himself;  and  he  be- 
came perplexed  beyond  the  poorest  of  his  subjects.  He  found  his 
golden  money  diminishing,  and  it  was  impossible  to  conjecture  how  it 
could  be.  The  architect  who  built  the  tower  liad  contrived  it  with 
such  skill  that  not  an  entrance  could  be  thought  of  m*  forced,  besides 
the  one  by  which  the  king  entered ;  and  it  was  clear  that  nobody 
entered  there.  The  key  was  solitary  of  it's  kind ;  the  door  always 
sealed  with  the  royal  signet;  and  the  passage  lay  through  the  royal 
chamber.  Yet  day  after  day,  more  money  disappeared.  The  dimi- 
nution even  took  place  in  the  very  strongest  room  of  the  whole 
building. 

The  king's  mind  was  greatly  astonished;  nor  could  the  priests  arid 
soothsaj'ers  relieve  him.  They  feared  that  the  circumstance  was  omi- 
nous to  Egypt;  and  that  the  overflow  of  the  Nile,  the  season  for 
which  was  now  approachingj  would  not  take  place.     But  the  river 


298  .  .  THE  INDICATOR. 

performed  it's  mighty  part  as  usual,  and  e\0T.y  Egyptlttn  luarf  was 
gladdened  but  the  king's.  Application  was  made  to  tlie  God  Apis  to 
know  if  it  was  the  deity  himself  that  diminished  the  pride  of  llhampsi- 
nitus;  but  upon  some  of  the  gold  and  jewels  being  offered  to  the 
sacred  breast,  he  blew  the  breath  out  of  his  nostrils  at  them  indiffe- 
rently, and  turning  to  his  ivory  manger,  took  a  pull  of  the  sacred  hay. 

It  was  the  opinion  of  the  priests  that  the  offering  to  the  god  had  not 
been  large  enough  ;  gods,  th<^y  said,  having  very  great  ideas,  and  ^ize 
being  necessary  to  move  them  to  any  acknowledgment  of  a  sensation. 
Rhampsinitus  however  contented  himself  with  setting  traps  round  the 
plundered  vessels  ;  and  it  was  the  talk  all  night  in  the  palaces  both  of 
the  king  and  of  Apis,  whether  the  plunderer  would  turn  out  to  be  a 
commou  mortal.  It  is  remarkable  that  more  priests  than  civil  officers 
thought  he  would ;  and  they  tofd  the  king's  people  so,  when  their  opi- 
nion was  asked;  but  added,  that  it  would  only  shew  itself  so  much  the 
more  remarkably,  to  be  a  j  udgment  of  heaven. 

This  opinion  was  greatly  corroborated  by  the  singularity  of  the 
event ;  for  in  truth,  a  common  mortal  was  found  caught  in  one  of  the 
traps,  but  when  they  came  to  look  who  he  was,  he  had  no  head.  "  It 
is  very  extraordinary !"  said  Rhampsinitus.  "  It  would  be  so,'^'  said 
the  priests,  "  were  it  not  supernatural."  A  search  was  made  all 
over  the  room  and  tower,  and  the  king  began  to  incline  to  their 
opinion.     Not  a  crevice  or  flaw  was  to  be  found. 

The  king  ordered  the  body  to  be  hung  up  in  the  most  public  part  of 
Memphis,  and  gave  directions  to  the  guards  who  watched  it  to  seize 
any  one  who  should  exhibit  symptoms  of  distress  at  the  spectacle. 
The  next  morning  a  report  was  m<ide  to  him  that  the  body  was  gone. 
None  of  the  guards  knew  whither.  All  that  could  be  gathered  was, 
that  towards  nightfall  a  man  came  driving»some  asses  by  the  spot,  laden 
with  skins  of  wine;  that  the  pegs,  by  some  means  or  other,  became 
loosened  from  the  skins,  and  set  the  wine  floating  jover  the  ground  ; 
that  the  man,  seeing  this,  tore  his  hair  and  made  vehement  outcries  for 
assistancp;  that  assistance  however  being  given  him,  and  among  others 
by  the  guards,  he  abused  those  who  helped  him  and  refused  for  a  long 
lime  to  be  pacified ;  that  having  at  last  got  over  his  confusion  of  mind, 
and  finding  not  so  much  wine  lost  as  he  supposed,  he  made  a  present 
of  a  flask  to  the  jg^uards ;  and  lastly,  that  after  they  had  all  made  merry, 
and  he  had  driTen  his  asses  away,  they  were  astonished  to  find  the 
dead  body  gone  also.  The  king  saw  plainly  that  the  last  part  of 
the  account  wanted  a  good  deal  of  the  truth.  He  saw  that  some  in- 
genious person  had  succeeded  in  making  the  guards  dead  drunk  ;  and 
with  all  his  anger,  he  could  hardly  repress  a  feeling  of  admiration  f«r 
the  unknown,  when  on  having  the  soldiers  brought  before  him,  he  dis- 
covered that  the  men  had  fpund  time  and  courage  enough  to  shave  all 
their  right  cheeks  in  derision. 

*'  Who  can  this  extraordinary  person  be  ?"  thought  Rhampsinitus. 
"  It  is  he  that  must  have  been  the  accomplice  of  the  first  thief  and  cut 
off  his  head  to  prevent  detection.  He  were  a  man  to  do  wonderfiU 
things  against  the  enemies  of  a  king,  if  he  were  his  friend.    He  shaU 


THE  INDICATOR.  299 

see  what  a  terrible  thing  it  is  to  mock  the'  king  and  b«  his  enemy." 
The  Egyptian  monarch,  in  the  rage  and  plenitude  of  his  will,  com- 
manded his  daughter  to  admit  the  addresses  of  jnen  indiscriminately,-— 
a  thing  however  not  so  scandalousjn  those  times  as  in  others.  There 
was  only  this  condition  annexed, — that  every  one,  who  enjoyed  the 
company  of  the  princess,  should  tell  her  the  most  cunning  and  the 
most  wicked  thing  he  had  ever  done  in  his  life.  A  day  had  only 
passed,  when  she  brought  him  news  of  the  robber.  A  man  had  told" 
her  that  the  most  wicked  thing  he  had  ever  don^  in  his  life,  was  the 
cutting  off  his  own  brother's  head  in  order  to  prevent  his  being  known 
as  a  robber  of  the  king's  treasury.  "  And  the  most  cunning  thing?" 
asked  the  monarch.  "  The  most  cunning  thing,  Sir,"  added  the  prin- 
cess, "  was  his  having  made  your  guards  drufik  with  wine  in  order  to 
carry  off  his  brother's  body,  his  mother  having  threatened  to  come  and 
disclose  the  whole  affair,  in  case  the  body  remained  exposed." — "  And 
where  is  this  impudent-souled  traitor  ?"  exclaimed  the  king.  *'  Alas, 
Sir,"  answered  the  princess,  "  I  know  not.''  "  Did  I  not  bid  you  catch 
his  arm,"  said  the  king,  '^  the  instant  you  discovered  him  ?"  "  I  did, 
Sir,"  replied  the  lady,  "  but  what  was  my  astonishment  on  finding  it 
detach  ifsdf  from  his  body,  while  he  glided  away  in  the  darkness  of 
the  night?"  "  How  !"  cried  the  prince :-p-"  why  this  is  a  sorcerer, 
©r — what  sort  of  man  is  he?"  "A  young  man,"  said  the  princess, 
"  with  sparkling  eyes  and  a  world  of  wit."  '  "  The  artful  impostor," 
said  the  king,  ^'  has  beguiled  you  of  your  heart,  and  taught  you  this 
tale  to  deceive  me."  "  Pray  look  in  this  box.  Sir,"  said  the  daughter, 
lifting  up  the  ltd  of  a  lyre-case.  It  contained  a  human  arm  ;  and  the 
king,  by  certain  marks,  plainly  knew  it  to  be  one  of  the  arms  of  the 
dead  body.  This  audacious  man  therefore,  whoever  he  was,  must  have 
eome  prepnr ed  with  it,  and  presented  it  to  his  fair  detainer  in  the  dark 
instead  of  his  own. 

The  king,  having  satisfied  himself  of  the  robber'spersonal  qualities 
from  his  daughter,  and  finding  that  he  would  as  much  grace  a  court  as 
a  cabinet,  fairly  lost  his  rage  in  delight.  He  made  public  proclama- 
tion, that  upon  the  offender's  appearing  in  the  royal  presence,  he 
would  not  only  pardon  but  reward  him;  and  the  proclamation  had  not 
been  madt?  for  more  than  the  sinking  of  an  inch  of  Nile-Abater,  when 
the  prodigious  thief  appeared.  He  was,  as  the  princess  had  described 
him,  a  young  man  with  a  lively  countenance,  and  he  was  not  slow  in 
showing  his  wit,  foi:  on  the  king's  asking  him  why  he  had  plundered 
his  property,  he  said  he  had  not  done  so  ;  because  by  the  laws  of  justice 
every  man  can  make  use  of  his  own ;  but  the  king's  property  was  too  large 
for  any  one  man  to  make  use  of;  therefore,  by  the  same  laws,  it  was  not 
his  ow  n .  On  being  further  asked  who  he  was,  he  said  '^  he  was  the  sort 
of  the  man  who  had  built  the  Tower  of  Treasure;  that  his  father  had 
contrived  one  of  the  stones  of  it  in  such  a  way,  that  they  who  were  in 
the  secret  could  remove  it  at  will ;  that  the  old  man  oh  his  death-bed 
communrcated  the  information  to  his  sons,  who  used  always  to  plunder 
in  company  ;  tha.t  it  was  by  his  brother's  own  request  he  cut  his  head 
off,  and  carried  it  away,  in  order  to  prevent  the  ruin  of  them  both  atid 


300  THE  INDICATOR. 

their  aged  mother ;  and  finally,  that  if  the  king  would  be  pleased  to 
bestow  the  intended  reward  an  the  old  woman,  he,  for  his  part,  would 
be  happy  to  serve  him  in  any  capacity  which  the  royal  wisdom  might 
be  pleased  to  point  out."  Rhampsinitas  gladly  took  him  at  his  word. 
He  enriched  the  old  mother ;  united  the  young  man  to  his  daughter ; 
and  increased  from  that  time  forward,  in  a  power  of  a  less  oppressive 
kind  to  his  subjects  then  the  amassing  of  wealth. 

This  is  the  story  from  Herodotus,  which  we  spoke  of  in  the  article 
entitled  Thieves  Ancient  and  Modern,  No.  XI.  p.  83. 


A  NOW, 

DESCRIPTIVE  OF  A  HOT  DAY. 

Now  the  rosy-  (and  lazy-)  fingered  Aurora,  issuing  from  her  salTroii 
house,  calls  up  the  moist  vapours  (o  surround  her,  and  goes  veiled  with 
them  as  long  as  she  can  ;  till  Phoebus,  coming  forth  in  his  power, 
looks  every  thing  out  of  the  sky,  and  hold?  sharp  uninterrupted  em- 
pire from  his  throne  of  beams.  Nbw  the  moAver  begins  to  make  hik 
sweeping  cuts  more  slowly,  and  resorts  oftener  to  the  beer.  Now  the 
carter  sleeps  a-top  of  his  load  of  hay,  or  plods  with  double  slouch  of 
shoulder,  looking  out  with  eyes  winking  under  his  shading  hat,  and 
with  a  hitch  upward  of  one  side  of  his  mouth.  Now  the  little  girl  at 
her  grandmother's  cottage-door  watches  the  coaches  that  go  by,  with 
her  hand  held  up  over  her  sunny  forehead.  Now  labourers  look  well 
resting  in  their  white  shirts  at  the  doors  of  jrnral  alehouses.  Now  an 
.elm  is  fine  there,  with  a  seat  under  it;  and  horses  drink  out  of  the 
trough,  stretching  their  yearning  necks  with  loosened  collars ;  and  the 
traveller  calls  for  his  glass  of  ale,  having  been  without  one  for  more 
than  ten  minutes;  and  his  horse  stands  wincing  at  the  flies,  giving 
sharp  shivers  of  his  skin,  and  moving  to  and  fro  his  ineifectual  docked 
tail;  aad  now  Miss  Betty  Wilson,  the  host's  daughter,  comes  stream- 
ing forth  in  a  flowered  gown  and  ear-rings,  carrying  with  four  of  her 
beautiful  fingers  th«  foaming  glass,  for  which,  after  the  traveller  has 
(drank  It,  she  receives  with  an  indifferent  eye,  looking  another  way, 
the  lawful  twoi-pence:  that  is  to  say,  unless  the  traveller,  nodding  his 
ruddy  face,  pays  some  gallant  compliment  to  her  before  he  drinks, 
such  as  "  I'd  rather  kiss  you,  my  dear,  than  the  tumbler,"— or  "  I'll 
wait  for  you,  my  love,  if  you'll  marry  me;"  upon  which,  if  the  man  is 
goodrlooking  and  the  lady  in  good-hu,mour,  she  smiles  and  bites  her 
lips,  and  says  *'  Ah — men  can  talk  fast  enough  ;"  upon  which  the  old 
stage-coachman,  who  is  buckling  something  near  her,  before  he  sets 
oiF,  says  in  a  hoarse  voice,  "  So  can  women  too  for  that  matter,''  and 
John  Boots  grins  through  his  ragged  red  locks,  and  doats  on  the  re- 
parte;e  all  the  day  after.     Now  grasshoppers  "  fry,"  as  Dryden  says. 


THK  INDICATOR.  301 

Now  cattle  stand  In  water,  and  ducks  are  envied.  Now  boots  and 
shoes,  and  trees  by  the  road  side,  are  thick  with  dust;  and  dogs, 
roiling  in  it,  after  issuing  out  of  the  water,  into  which  they  have  beeii 
thrown  to  fetch  sticks,  come  scattering  horror  among  the  legs  of  the 
spectators.  Now  a  fellow  who  finds  he  has  three  miles  further  to  go  in 
a  pair  of  tight  shoes,  is  in  a  pretty  situation.  Now  rooms  with  the  sun 
upon  them  become  intolerable  ;  and  the  apothecary's  apprentice,  with 
a  bitterness  beyond  aloes,  thinks  of  the  pond  he  used  to  bathe  in  at 
school.  Now  men  with  powdered  heads  (especially  if  thick)  envy 
those  that  are  unpowdered,  and  stop  to  wipe  them  up  hill,  with  coun- 
tenances that  seem  to  expostulate  with  destiny.  Now  boys  assemble 
round  the  village  pump  with  a  ladle  to  it,  and  delight  to  make  a  for- 
bidden splash  and  get  wet  through  the  shoes.  Now  also  they  make 
suckers  of  leather,  and  bathe  all  day  long  in  rivers  and  ponds,  a,nd  fol- 
low the  fish  into  their  cool  corners,  and  say  millions  of  ''  My  eyes!" 
at  "  tittle-bats."  Now  the  bee,  as  he  hums  along,  seems  to  be  talking 
heavily  of  the  heat.  Now  doors  and  brick-walls  are  burning  to  the 
hand ;  and  a  walled  lane,  with  dust  and  broken  bottles  in  it,  near  a 
brick-field,  is  a  thing  not  to  be  thought  of.  Now  a  green  lane,  on  the 
contrary,  thick-set  with  hedge-row  elms,  and  having  the  noise  of  a 
brook  "  rumbling  in  pebble-stone,"  is  one-of  the  pleasantest  things  in 
the  world.  Now  youths  and  damsels  walk  through  hay-fields,  by 
chance;  and  the  latter  say,  "Ha'  done  then,  William;"  and  the 
overseer  in  the  next  field  calls  out  to  "  let  thic  thear  hay  thear  bide ;" 
and  the  girls  persist,  merely  to  plague  "  such  a  frumpish  old  fellow." 

Now,  in  town,  gossips, talk  more  than  ever  to  one  another,  in  rooms, 
in  door-ways,  and  out  of  window,  always  beginning  the  conversation 
with  saying  that  the  heat  is  overpowering.  Now  blinds  are  let  down, 
and  doors  thrown  open,  and  flannel  waistcoats  left  off,  and  cold  meat 
preferred  to  hot,  and  wonder  expressed  why  tea  continues  so  refresh- 
ing, and  people  delight  to  sliver  lettuces  into  bowls,  and  apprentices 
water  door-ways  with  tin-canisters  that  lay  several  atoms  of  dust'. 
Now  the  water-cart,  jumbling  along  the  middle  of  the  street,  and 
jolting  the  showers  out  of  it's  box^f  water,  really  does  something. 
Now  boys  delight  to  have  a  water-pipe  let  out,  and  see  it  bubbling 
away  in  a  tall  and  frothy  volume.  Now  fruiterers'  shops  and  dairies 
look  pleasant,  and  ices  are  the  only  things  to  those  who  can  get  them. 
Now  ladies  loiter  in  baths  ;  and  people  make  presents  of  flowers;  and 
wine  is  put  into  ice ;  and  thf  after-dinner  lounger  recreates  his  head 
with  applications  of  perfumed  water  out  of  long-necked  bottles.  Now 
the  lounger,  who  cannot  resist  riding  his  new  horse,  feels  his  boots 
burn  him.  Now  buck-skins  are  iu)t  the  lawn  of  Cos.  Now  jockies, 
walking  in  great  coats  to  lose  flesh,  curse  inwardly.  Now  five  fat 
people  in  a  stage  coach,  hate  the  sixth  fat  one  who  is  coming  in,  and 
think  he  has  no  right  to  be  so  large.  Now  clerks  in  offices  do  nothing^ 
but  drink  soda-water  and  spruce-beer,  and  read  the  newspaper.  Now 
the  old  clothes-man  drops  his  solitary  cry  more  deeply  into  the  areas 
on  the  hot  and  forsaken  side  of  the  street ;  and  bakers  look  vicious  ; 
and  cooks  are  aggravated  :  and  the  steam  of  a  tavern  kitchen  catches 


302  THE  INDICATOR. 

htlld^^one'like  the  breath  of  Tartarus.  Now  delicate  skins  are  beset 
•»^Mi  ^»tats :  and  boys  make  their  sleeping  companion  start  up,  with 
playing  a  burning-glass  on  his  hand  ;  and  blacksmiths  are  super-car- 
bonated; and  coblers  in  their  stalls  almost  feel  a  wish  to  be  trans- 
planted ;  and  butter  is  too  easy  to  spread  ;  ahd  the  dragoons  w  onder 
•wliether  the  Romans  liked  their  helmets;  and  oLd  ladies,  with  their 
lappets  unpinned,  walk  along  in  a  state  of  dilapidation  ;  and  the  ser- 
vant-maids are  afraid  they  look  vulgarly  hot ;  and  the  author,  who  has 
a  plate  of  strawberries  brought  him,  finds  that  he  has  come  to  the  end 
©f  his  writing. 

We  cannot  conclude  this  article  however  without  returning  thanks, 
both  on  our  own  account  and  on  that  of  our  numerous  predecessors 
who  have  left  so  large  a  debt  of  gratitude  unpaid,  to  this  very  useful  and 
ready  raonsyllable— "  Now."  We  are  sure  that  there  is  not  a  didactic 
poet,  ancient  or  modern,  who  if  he  possessed  a  decent  share  of  can» 
dour  would  not  be  happy  to  own  his  acknowledgments  to  that  mas- 
terly conjunction,  which  possesses  the  very  essence  of  wit,  for  it  Itas 
the  talent  of  bringing  the  most  remote  things  together.  And  it's  gene- 
rosity is  in  due  proportion  to  it's  talent,  for  it  always  is  most  profuse 
of  It's  aid,  where  it  is  most  wanted. 

We  must  enjoy  a  pleasant  passage  with  the  reader  on  the  subject  of 
this  "  eternal  Now"  in  Beaumont  and  Fletcher's  plgy  of  the  Woman 
Hitter. — Upon  turning  to  it,  we  perceive  that  our  illustrious  particle 
does  not  make  quite  so  g>ri:at  a  figure  as  we  imagined ;  but  the  whole 
passage  is  in  so  analogous  a  taste,  and  affords  such  an  agreeable  speci- 
iracn  of  the  wit  and  humour  with  which  fine  poets  could  rally  the 
coraimon-places  of  their  art,  that  we  cannot  lielp  proceeding  with  it. 
Laxarello,  a  foolish  table-hunter,  has  requested  an  introduction  to  the 
Duke  of  Milan,  who  has  had  a  fine  lamprey  presented  hinu  -Before, 
the  introduction  takes  place,  he  finds  that  the  Duke  has  giten  the  fish 
away  ;  so  that  his  wish  to  be  known  to  him  goes  with  it;  and  part  of 
the  drollery  of  the  passage  arises  from  his  uneasiness  at  being  detained 
by  the  consequences  of  his  own  request,  and  his  fear  lest  he  should  be 
too  late  for  the  lamprey  elsewherci 

Count.  (Aside  to  the  Duke.)  Let  me  entreat  your  GrJ^ce  to  stay  a 
a  little. 

To  know  a  gentleman,  to  whom  yourself 
Is  much  beholding.     He  hath  made  the  sport 
For  your  whole  court  these  eight  years,  on  my  knowledge. 

Duke.  His  name? 

C'ouNT.  Lnzarello. 

DuKK^  I  heard  of  Wm  this  morning: — which  is  he  ? 

Count.  (Aside  to  La z.),  Lazarello,  pluck  up  thy  spirits.  Thy  for- 
tuive  is  now  raising.  The  Duke  calls  for  thee,  and  thou  shall  be  ac 
(sjuainted  with  him. 

Laz.  He's  ^oiiig  away,  and  I  must  of  necessity  slay  heie  upor, 
business. 

Count.  'Tb  all  one:  thou  shall  kiiow  him  first. 


THE  INDICATOR.  30S 

-  Laz.  Stay  a  little.  If  he  should  offer  to  take  me  with  liim,  and  by 
that  means  I  should  lose  that  I  seek  for  !  But  if  he  should,  I  will  not 
go  with  him. 

Count.  Lazarello,  the  Duke  stays.  Wilt  thou  lose  Uiis  opportu- 
nify  ?  ' 

Laz.  How  must  I  speak  to  him  ? 

Count.  'Tvvas  well  thought  of.     You  must  not  talk  to  him  as  you 
do  to  an  ordinary  man,  honest  plain  sense ;  but  you  must  wind  about 
him.     For  example  if  he  should  ask  you  what  o'clock  it  is,  you  must 
not  say,  "  If  it  please  your  Grace,  'tis  nine  ;" — but  thus; — "  Thric« 
three  o'clock,  so  please  my  Sovereign:" — or  thus; — • 
^'  Look  how  many  Muses  there  doth  dvyell 
Upon  the  sweet  banks  of  the  learned  well. 
And  just  so  many  strokes  the  clock  hath  struck  ;"  — 
And  so  forth.     And  you  must  now  and  then  enter  into  a  description. 

Laz.  I  hope  I  shall  do  it. 

Count.  Come. — May  it  please  your  Grace  to  take  note  of  a  gentle- 
man, well  seen,  deeply  read,  and  thoroughly  grounded,  in  the  hidden 
knowledge  of  all  sallets  and  pot-herbs  whatsoever  ? 

Duke.  I  shall  desire  to  know  him'  more  inwardly. 

Laz.  I  kiss  the  ox-hide  of  your  Grace's  foot. 

Count.  (Aside  to  Laz.)  Very  well. — Will  your  Grace  question  him 
a  little? 

Duke.  How  old  are  you^ 

Laz.  Full  eight-and-twenty  several  almanacks 
Have  been  compiled,  all  for  several  years. 
Since  first  I  drew  this  breath.     Four  prenticeships 
Have  I  most  truly  served  in  this  world  : 
And  eight-and-twenty  times  hath  Phoebus'  car 
Run  out  his  yearly  course,  since—— 

Duke.  I  understand  you,  Sir. 

Lucio.  How  like  an  ignorant  poet  he  talks  !  ,     . 

Duke.  You  are  eight-and-twenty  years  old  ?  What  time  of  /^he  day 
do  you  hold  it  to  be  ? 

Laz.  About  the  time  that  mortals  whet  their  knives 
On  thresholds,  on  their  shoe-soles,  and  on  stairs.  ' 

Now  bread  is  grating,  and  the  testy  cook 
Hath  much  to  do  now  :  now  the  tables  all 

Duke.  'Tis  almost  dinner-time  ? 

Laz.  Your  Grace  doth  apprehend  me  very  riglUly. 


^Q4  THE  INDICATOR. 


A   DREAM, 
AFTER  REAHINO  DANTe's  EPISODE  OF  PAULO  AND  PRANCESCA. 

As  Hermes  onco  took  to  lus  featliera  light. 

When  lulled  Argus,  baffled,  swoon'd  and  slept, 

So  on  a  Delphic  reed  my  idle  spright 

So  play'd,  so  charm'd,  so  conquer'd,  so  bereft 

The  dragon  world  of  all  its  hundred  eyes; 

And,  seeing  it  asleep,  so  fled  away — 

Not  unto  Ida  with  its  snow-cold  skies. 

Nor  unto  Tempe  where  Jove  griev'd  a  day; 

But  to  that  second  circle  of  sad  hell, 

Where  'mid  the  gust,  the  world-wind,  and  the  flaw 

Of  rain  and  hailstones,  lovers  need  not  tell 

"nieir  sorrows.     Pale  were  the  sweet  lips  I  saw. 

Pale  were  the  lips  I  kiss'd,  and  fair  the  form 

I  floated  with  about  that  melancholy  storm. 

CAVrARE. 


TO  CORRESPONDENTS. 

The  Editor  will  keep  in  mind  the  request  respecting  the  Translalioiis,  Indeed  it 
has  long  been  among  the  subjects  he  has  noted  down. 

The  Correspondent  who  enquires  concerning  the  edition  of  Spenser,  is  informed 
that  Mr.  Todd's  is  undoubiedly  the  best.  The  text  is  printed  with  gre&t  care  and 
legibility,  and  the  notes  and  prolegomena  are  a  copious  selection  from  all  that  have 
appeared  on  that  great  poet. 

D's  spirit  is  mudi  to  our  taste,  but  he  sometimes  does  not  do  himself  justice  iu 
his  management  of  the  detail.  He  should  give  hjnisfiW altogether  op  to  his  feelings, 
and  not  care  whether  every  sentence  is  piquant  or  not.  Perhaps  he  will  oblige  us 
with  a  sight  of  a  few  more  of  his  sketches. 


Printed  and  published  by  Joseph  Appleyard,  No.  19,  Catherine-street,  Strand. 
Price  2d. — And  sold  also  by  A.  Guddon,  Importer  of  Snuffs,  No.  31,  Tavistoek- 
street,  Govent-garden.  Orders  received  at  the  above  places,  and  by  all  Book- 
seller* and  Newsmen. 


THE    INDICATOR, 


Tliere  he  arriving  round  about  dotli  flie. 
And  takes  survey  with  busie  curious  eye : 
Now  this,  now  tiiat,  lie  tastetU  tenderly. 

SpEXSliR. 


No.  XXXI X.— WEDNESDAY,  JULY  5th,    1820. 


gXlgano  and  madonna  MINOCCIA. 

■  In  tlic  City  of  Sienna  in  Italy,  famous  for  it's  sweet  voices  and  plea- 
sant air,  lived  a  sprightly  aud  accomplished  youn^  man  of  the  name  of 
Ga^gano,  who  had  long  loved  in  vain  the  wife  of  ono  Signor  Stricca. 
He  4t.new  nothing  of  the  hasbaud,  except  that  he  was  what  we  call  a 
respectable  man; 'and  something  or  othiT  in  his  mind  prevented  him 
from  making  his  acquaintance;  but  he  contrived  to  meet  the  lady 
■vVhereyer  he  could  at  other  men's  houses,  and  to  let  her  know  the 
extent  of  his  admiration.  He  wore  her  colours  at  tournamentsi  He 
played-  and  sung  to  the  mandolin  under  her  window,  when  her  husband. 
Avas  away.  He  was  always  of  her  opinion  in  company,  partly  because 
he  was  in  love,  and  partly  because  tlieir  drsposilions  w«re  so  alike  that 
he  really  thought  as  she  did.  One  evening  as  a  party  sat  out  on  a 
large  vvide  balcony  full  of  orange-trees,  listening  to  music  that  was 
going  on  inside  of  the  house,  Madonna  Minoccia  (such  was  the  lady's 
name)  dropped  a  small  jewel  in  one  of  the  trees  ;  and  as  he  was  help- 
ing her  tx>  find  it,  hcT  sweet  stooping  face  and  spicy-smelijng  hair 
appeared  so  lovely  among  the  polished  and  graceful  leaves,  that  ha 
coukliiot  but  steal  a  kiss  upon  ohe  of  her  eyelids,  adding  in  a  low  and 
earnest  voice,  ."  Fargive  me,for  I  could  not  help  if;" 
,  Whetiltr  the  sincere  and  respectful  .manner  in  which  these  word* 
were  uttered,  had  any  influence  upon  the  lady's  mind,  we'cannot  say  ; 
but  neither  on  this,  nor  on  future  occasions. when  he  sent  her  present.s 
and  letters,  did  she  return  any  answer,  klnd^or  unkind ;  nor  did  she 
shew  him  a  different  countenance  whenever  they  met,.  She^  onlr 
dropped  her  eyes  a"  little  more  than  usual,  when  fis  spoke  to  her  ;  but 
whether  again  this  was  owing  to  a  wish  to  avoid  looking  at  him,  or 
to  some  little- feeling  of  self-love,"  perhaps  unknown  to  het.self,  aid 
produced  by  the  recollection  of  that  irrepressible  movement  on  his 
parf,  is  not  to  be  ascertained.'  Some  ladies  will  say,  that  she  ought  to 
have  made  a  complaint  to  her  husband,  or  spoken  to  the  people  whom 
he  vrsitedj  or  :laQla'(t  the  maninto  Iho  dust  at  oar^  $  and  doubtless 


30«i  THE  INDICATOR. 

this  would  hare  settled  the  matter  on  all  sides.  But  Madonna  Mi- 
noccia  was  of  so  kind  a  disposition,  that  she  could  not  easily  find  it  ia 
her  heart  to  complain  of  any  body,  much  less  of  a  man  who  found 
such  irresistible  gentleness  in  her  eyelids.  Besides,  whatever  may  be 
thought  of  her  ranity  in  this  score,  she  was  really  so  good,  and  innocent, 
and  modest,  that  we  know  not  how  much  it  would  hare  taken  to  con- 
Tince  her  fully  of  any  one's  being  really  in  love  with  her,  or  admiring 
her  more  than  other  ladies  for  qualities  which  she  thought  so  many  of 
them  must  hare  in  common.  In  short,  Madonna,  though  innocent^ 
was  not  ignorant  that  gallantry  was  very  common  in  Sienna.  Her 
husband,  who  was  a  very  honest  sincere-hearted  man,  had  told  her 
that  all  unmarried  young  men  had  their  vagaries  ;  and,  as  for  that 
matter,  many  very  grave-looking  married  people  too ;  and  she  thought, 
that  if  a  husband  whom  she  loved,  and  whose  word  she  could  rely  on, 
set  her  an  example  nevertheless  of  conjugal  fidelity,  she  could  not  da 
better  than  do  her  duty  quietly  and  without  ostentation,  and  think  oC 
these  odd  proceedings  both  as  good-naturedly  and  rarely  as  possible. 

Unfortunately  for  Galgano,  this  kind  of  temper  was  the  worst  thing 
in  the  world  to  make  him  leave  off  his  love.     He  had  habitually  got  a 
common  notion  of  gallantry  from  tlie  light  in  which  it  was  generally 
regarded;  but  his  instinct  was  better.     The  subtlety  of  love  made  him 
discover  what  was  passing  in  Minoccia's  mind;  and  as  he  had  the 
elements  of  true  modesty  in  him  as  well  as.  herself,  and  would  want 
much  to  be  convinced,  that  a  woman  really  loved  him,  whatever  might 
be  his  affection  for  her,  or  rather  in  proportion  to  the  sincerity  of  it, 
he  thought  that  she  only  treated  him  as  she  would  any  other  young 
man  who  had  paid  her  uuwelcome  attention.     But  then  to  see  how 
kind  she  still  was,— to  observe  no  change  in  her,  for  all  his  unweU 
comeness,  but  only  such  as  might  be  construed  into  a  gentle  request  to 
him  to  forbear, — ^in  short,  to  meet  with  a  woman  who  neither  shewed 
a  disposition  to  gallantry,  nor  resentment  against  the  manifestation  of 
it,  nor  a  coldness  that  might  be  construed  into  natural  indifference,  all 
this  made  him  so  much  in  love,  that  he  thought  his  very  being  failed 
him  and  wanted  replenishing,  if  he  was  a  day  without  seeing  her.     He 
took  a  lodging  opposite  Signer  Stricca's  house  ;  and  in  order  to  indulge 
himself  in  looking  at  her  without  being  discovered,  filled  the  window 
of  his  room  with  orange  trees.     At  times,  when  every  thing  was  still, 
and  the  windows  were  open  in  the  warm  summer-time,  he  heard  her 
voice  speaking  to  the  servants.     "  It  is  the  same  kind  voice,''  said  he, 
*' always."     At  other  times,  he  sat  watching  her  through  his  orange- 
trees,  as  she  read  a  book,  or  worked  at  her  embroidery;  and  if  she 
left  off,  and  happened  to  look  at  them,   (which  he  often  moved  about 
with  a  noise,  for  that  purpose)  it  seemed  to  him  as  if  her  face  was 
coDiing  again  among  the  leaves.     Then  he  thought  it  would  never 
come,  and  that  he  should  never  touch  it  more  ;  and  he  felt  sick  with 
impatience,  and  said  to  himself,    "  This  is  the  way  these  virtuous 
people  are  kind,  is  it  ?" 

It  chanced  that  Signer  Stricca  took  a  house  at  a  little  distance  from 
Sienna,  where  bis  wife,  who  was  fond  of  a  garden,  from  that  time  forth 
^hva-Y*  resided,     Galgano,  Vho  was  like  a  bird  with  a  string  tied  ta 


THE  INDICATOR.  307 

his  leg,  be  sure  'flew  after  thenv.  lie  found  a  room  in  a  cottage  just 
pitched  like  his  former  one.  The  orange-trees  were  removed,  and  he 
recommenced  his  enamoured  task,  fully  resolred  besides  to  get  inti- 
mate with  Signor  Stricca,  and  try  what  importunity  could  do  in  the 
country.  "  I  think,"  said  Madonna  Minoccia,  to  her  maid-servant, 
looking  out  of  window,  "I  can  never  turn  my  eyes  any  where  but  I 
see  beautiful  orange-trees." — "  Ah,"  sighed  Galgano,  "  the  turning  of 
those  eyes !  They  ought  always  to  light  upon  what  is  beautiful." 
*'  I  could  swear,"  said  Madonna,  ^'  if  my  husband  would  let  me, 
that  those  were  the  very  same  oranges  which  belonged  to  our  invisible 
neighbour  at  Sienna,  only  he  must  be  too  old  a  bachelor  to  change  his 
quarters.''  And  she  began  to  sing  a  canzonet  that  was  all  over  the 
country  ;— 

**  Araticle,  belle  arancie, 

*' Pienolte  come  guancie, — 

Here  she  suddenly  stopped,  and  said  "  I  am  very  giddy  to  day,  to 
sing  such  lawless  little  rhymes ;  but  the  skies  are  so  blue,  and  the  leaves 
BO  green,  they  make  me  chaunt  like  a  bird.  I  can  see  my  husband 
now  with  a  bird's  eye.  There  he  is,  Lisetta,  coming  through  the 
olive-trees.  Go  and  get  me  my  veil,  and  I'll  walk  and  meet  him  like  a 
fair  unknown." — ^' The  invisible  neighbour!"  thought  Galgano:— 
*'  is  this  coquetry  now,  or  is  it  sheer  innocence  and  vivacity  !  And  the 
song  of  the  oranges!  I'll  try  however— I'll  look  at  her  above  the 
leaves.'' 

Now  the  reader  must  be  informed  that  Galgano  himself  was  the 
author  of  this  canzonet,  both  words  and  music,  and  was  generally 
known  as  such.  Whether  Minoccia  knew  it,  we  cannot  determine ; 
but  Galgano  thought  that  she  could  hardly  have  quite  forgotten  the 
adventure  of  the  orange-tree,  especially  as  the  song  was  calculated  to 
«all  it  to  mind.     The  whole  of  the  words  amounted  to  this  :— • 

Oh  oranges,  sweet  orange.", 

Plunnpy  clieeks  that  peep  in  treep. 

The  crabbed'st  churl  in  all  (he  south 

Would  hardly  let  a  thirsty  mouth 

Gaze  at  ye,  and  long  to  taste. 

Nor  grant  one  golden  kiss  at  last. 
La,  la,  la — la  sol  fa  mi — 
My  lady  looked  through  the  or«nge-tre«. 

Yet  cheeks  there  are,  yet  cheeks  tliere  are, 
Sweeter — Oh  good  God,  how  far •! — 
That  make  a  thirst  like  very  death 
Down  to  the  heart  through  lips  and  breath ; 
And  if  we  asked  a  taste  of  those. 
The  kindest  owners  would  turn  foe*. 

O  la,  la — la  sol  fa  mi — 

My  lady's  gone  from  the  ofangc-tree. 

Galgano,  full  of  this  modest  complaint  against  husbands  and  of  Minocr 
cia's  knowledge  of  it,  suddenly  raised  his  head  over  the  orange-pot«, 
and  made  a  very  bold  yet  courteous  bow^  full  in  Madonna's  astonished 
fare.  For  it  was  astonished: — there  was,  unfortunately,  no  doubt  of 
that.  She  resumed  herself  however  with  the  best  grace  she  could,  and 
staying  just  long  enough  to^drop  one  of  her  kiadcst  though  grave«t 


SOS  THE  INDICATOR. 

courtseys,  walked  slowly  from  the  window.     After  that  he  never  saw 
her  there  again. 

Galgano  tried  all  the  points  of  view  about  the  house,  but  could  only 
catch  an  occasional  glimpse  of  her  through  the  garden  trees.  He  could 
not  even  meet  with  Signor  Stricca,  to  whom  he  meant  under  some  plau- 
sible pretext  to  introdace  himself.  At  length  however  a  favourable 
ppportuniry  occurred.  His  dog,  in  scouring  hither  and  thither,  had 
darted  into  the  front  gate  of  the  house,  and  seemed  resolved  not  to  be 
hunted  out  till  he  had  made  the  full  circuit  of  the  grounds.  "  My 
master,  Sir,"  said  one  of  the  servants,  ♦'  bade  me  ask  you  if  you  would 
chuse  to  walk  in  and  call  the  dog  out  yourself?"  "  I  thank  you," 
atifewered  Galgano,  who  seemed  to  feel  that  he  could  not  go  in,  pre- 
cisely because  he  had  the  best  opportunity  in  the  world;  "  I  will 
whistle  him  to  me  over  those  palings  there."  He  did  so,  and  the  dog 
presently  appeared,  followed-  by  Signor  Stricca  and  his  household. 
The  auimal,  In  leaping  to  his  master  over  the  palings,  hurt  his  leg ;  but' 
nothing  could  induce  Galgano  to  enter  the  house.  "  Minoccia,  my 
love,"  cried  the  host,  "  why  do  you  not  come  up,  and  entreat  Signor 
Galgano  to  favour  our  home  with  his  presence  r"  The  lady  was  ap- 
{jroaching,  when  Galgano,  lapping  up  the  wounded  dog  in  his  cloak, 
hurried  off,  protesting  that  he  had  the  rascalliest  business  in  life  to 
«itend- to,  and  that  he  would  take  the  very  earliest  opportunity  of 
repayirtg  Himself  for  his  loss.  *'  There  now,"  said  Stricca,  to  a  little 
coxcombical  looking  fellow  who  was  on  a  holiday  visit  to  him,  "  there 
is  one  of  the  most  accomplished  gentlemen  in  all  Italy,  and  yet  he  does 
not  disdain  to  wrap  up  his  bleeding  dog  in  his  silken  coat.  That," 
continued  he,  to  his  wife,  "  is  Signor  Galgano,  one  of  the  finest  wits 
in  Sienna,  and  what  is  better,  one  of  the  most  generous  of  men.  But 
you  must  have  seen  him  before."  "  Yes,''  replied  Madonna,  "  but  I 
knew  nothing  of  his  generosity."  Her  husband,  like  one  generous 
roan  speaking  of  another,  related  twenty  different  instances  in  which 
Galgano  had  manifested  his  friendship  and  liberality  in  the  most  deli- 
cate manner;  so  that  Minoccia,  at  last,  almost  began  to  feel  the  kiss 
in  the  orange-tree  stronger  upon  her  eyelids,  than  she  did  when  it  was 
•tolen. 

Galgano  soon  made  his  appearance  in  Signor  Stricca's  house,  and 
could  not  but  perceive  that  the  lady  suffered  herself  to  look  kinder  at 
him  than  when  he  bowed  to  her  out  of  the  cottage  window.  He  was 
beginning, to  congratulate  himself,  after  the  fashion  of  the  young  gal- 
lants among  whonji  he  had  been  brought  up  ;  but  what  perplexed  him 
was  the  extremely  affectionate  attention  she  paid  her  husband;  and 
his  perplexity  was  not  diminished  by  the  very  great  kindness  shewn 
him  by  the  husband  himself.  Indeed  the  kindness  of  both  seemed  to 
go  hand  in. hand;  so  that  our  hero,  having  never  yet  been  taught  that 
a  lady  to  whom  a  stranger  had  shewn  attention  could  do  any  thing  but 
favour  him  entirely,  or  laugh  at  or  insult  him,  was  more  than  ever 
bewildered  between  his  respect  for  the  husband  and  increasing  passion 
for  the  wife. 

Galgano,  though  not  in  so  many  words,  pressed  his  suit  in  a  manner 
that  grow  warmer  every  day.     Minoccia  seemed  more  and  more  dis- 


THE  INDICATOR.  309 

tressed  at  it ;  and  yet  her  kindness  appeared  to  Increase  in  proportion. 
At  length,  one  afternoon,  as  they  sat  together  in  a  summer-house, 
Galgano  seeing  her  stoop  her  face  into  an  orange-tree,  was  so  over- 
come with  the  recollection  of  the  first  meeting  of  their  faces,  that_he 
repeated  the  kiss,  changing  it  however  from  the  eyelids  to  the  lips  ; 
and  it  struck  him  that  she  did  not  withdraw  as  quickly  as  before,  nor 
look  by  any  means  so  calm  and  indifferent.     He  accordingly  took  her 

.hand  in  order  to  kiss  it  with  a  passionate  gratitude,  when  she  laid  her 
other  hand  upon  his,  and  looking  at  him  with  a  sort  of  •appealing  ten- 
derness in  the  face,  said,  "  Signor  Galgano,  I  respect  you  for  number- 
less generous  things  I  have  heard  of  you  ;  and  knowing  as  I  do  how 
little  what  is  called  gallantry  is  thought  of,  I  cannot  deny  but  that 
your  present  attentions  to  me  and  apparent  wishes  do  not  hinder  me 
from  letting  my  respect  run  into  a  kinder  feeling  towards  you.  Per- 
haps, so  sweet  to  us  is  flattery  from  those  we  regard,  they  have  even 
more  effect  upon  me  than  I  ought  to  allow.  But,  Sir,  there  are  always 
persons,  whether  they  act  justly  or  unjustly  themselves,  who  do  think 
a  great  deal  of  this  gallantry,  and  who,  if  the  case  applied  to  them- 
selves, would  be  rendered  very  uncomfortable;  and,  Signor  Galgano,. 
I  have  one  of  the  very  best  husbands  in  the  world  ;  and  if  I  shew  any 
weakness  towards  another  unbecoming  a  grateful  wife,  I  do  beseech 
you,  Sir, — and  I  pay  you  one  of  the  greatest  and  most  affectionate 
compliments  under  heaven, — that  rather  than  do  or  risk  any  thing  the 

"knowledge  of  which  should  pain  him,  you  will  help  me  with  all  the 
united  strength  of  your  generosity  against  my  very  self;  otherwise" 
(here  she  fell  into  a  blushing  passion  of  tears)  "  it  may  be  a  hard 
struggle  for  me  to  call  to  mind  what  I  ought  respecting  the  happiness 
of  others,  while  you  are  saying  to  me  things  that  make  me  frightfully 
absorbed  in  the  moment  before  me." 

We  .leave  the  reader  *o  guess  how  Galgano's  attention  to  the  ap- 
pealing part  of  this  speech  was  divided  and  hurt  by  the  tenderness  it 
avowed,  and  the  opportunity  it  seemed  to  offer  him.  lie  passionately 
kissed  the  hand  of  the  gentle  Minoccia,  and  she  did  not  hinder  him, 
only  she  looked  another  way,  drying  up  her  tears ;  and  he  thought 
l1ie  turn  of  her  head  and  neck  never  looked  so  lovely.  "And  if  it 
were  possible,"  asked  he,  "  that  the  opinions  of  good  and  generous 
men  could  be  chapge'd  on  this  subject  (not  that  it  would  become  me  to 
seek  to  change  those  of  the  man  I  allude  to) — but  if  it  were  possible, 
and  no  bar  were  in  the  way  of  a  small  share  of  Minoccia's  kindness, 
might  I  indeed  then  hope  that  she  would  not  withdraw  it?"  "  Is  it 
fair,  Signor  Galgano,"  said  Minoccia,  in  a  low  but  kind  voice,  "  to 
ask  me  such  a  question,  after  the  words  that  have  found  their  way  out 
of  my  lips  ?" — "  And  who  then  was  the  kindest  of  men  or  women, — 
next  to  yourself,  dearest  Minoccia, — that  told  you  so  many  handsome 
and  over-coloured  things  of  your  worshipper  ?"  *'  My  husband  him- 
self," answered  «he  ; — "he  has  long  had  a  regard  for  your  character, 
and  at  last  he  taught  me  to.  share  it." — ^^" Did  he  so  !"  exclaimed  Gal- 
gano ; — "then  by  heavens "  He  broke  off  a  moment,  and  re- 
sumed in  a  quieter  tone ; — "  You,  Madame  Minoccia,  who  have  a 
loving  and  affectionate  heart,  and  who  confess  that  you  have  been 


aio  THE  INDICATOR. 

njoTcd  tb  some  regard  for  me  by  qualities  which  you  know  only  by  re-' 
port,  ■will  guesj^what  pangs  that  spirit  must  go  through  which  has  heen 
made  dizzy  by  looking  upon  your  qualities  day  after  day,  and  yet  must 
tear  itself  from  a  happiness  in  which  it  would  plunge  headlong.  But 
by  the  great  and  good  God,  -which  created  all  this  beauty  around  us, 
^nd  you  the  most  beautiful  of ^  all  beautiful  things  in  the  midst  of  it,  I 
do  love  the  generosity,  and  the  sincerity,  and  the  harmony  that  keeps 
them  beautiful,  so  much  more  than  my  own  will,  that  although  I  think 
the  happiness  might  be  greater,  it  shall  never  be  said  that  Galgano 
made  it  less  ;  and  that  he  made  it  less  too,  because  the  generosity 
trusted  him,  and  the  kind  sincerity  leaned  on  him  for  support. — 
One  embrace,  or  I  shall  die."  And  Galgano  not  only  gave,  but 
received  an  embrace  almost  as  warm  as  what  he  gave ;  and  Minoc- 
cia  kissed  his  eyelids,  and  then  putting  her  hand  over  them  and  press- 
ing them  as  if  not  to  let  him  see,  suddenly  took  it  oif,  and  disap- 
peared. 

We  know  not  how  Signor  Stricca  received  the  account  of  this  inter- 
Tiew  at  the  time  ;  for  Madame  Minoccia  certainly  related  it  to  him  ; 
but  it  is  in  the  records  of  Sienna,  that  years  afterwards,  while  she 
■was  yet  alive,  her  husband  became  bound  for  Signor  Galgano  in  a  large 
sum  of  money,  as  security  for  an  office  which  the  latter  held  in  the 
state  ;  an^Jt  appears  by  the  dates  in  the  papers,  that  they  were  close 
^neighbours  as  well  as  friends.^ 


O^'  THE  SLOW  RISE  OF  THE  MOST  RATIONAL  OPINIONS. 

It  would  be  surprising  to  think  by  what  slow  degrees  the  most  ra^*  , 
tional,  and  apparently  the  most  obvious  improvements  take  place  in-   ' 
humau  opinion,  did  not  habit,  and  self-.love,  and  the  fear  of  change,- 
sufficiently  account  for  them.     Some  find  it  as  difficult  to  leave  oil"  a 
mere  habit  of  opinion,  however  pernicious,  as  drunkards  their  drams. 
Others  cannot  bear  a  diminu(ion  in  the  respect  which  they  have  long 
entertained  for  themselves,  as  sensible  and  conclusive  thinkers.     Others 
are  afraid  of  all  innovation,  in  consequence  of  the  shock  it  gives  to.   ^ 
society;  and  yet  the  next  minute  they  would  wage  a  dozen  wars  ta   > 
preserve  the  old  notions.     Again,  it  is  thought  a  triumphant  argument    - 
with  some,  if  the  new  opinion  proposed  be  to  the  advantage  of  the 
proposer ; — which  is  a  very  idle  objection  ;  because  if  it  supposes  the 
general  good,  it  includes  his  among  the  rest. 

Innovation,  as  mere  innovation,  is  a  want  of  reverence  for  anti- 
quity; an  insensibility  to  the  accumulated  habits  of  time,  and  to  the 
comforts  and  consolations  they  have  gathered  by  the  way.     But  on  the 

*  This  story  (with  the  usual  difierence  of  detail)  is  from  the  Italian  Novelists, 
nnd  has  been  told  in  Painter's  Palace  of  Pleasure,  one  of  the  fctore-hoiues  of  eur 
grrat  dr«ma<ir  writers. 


THP.  INDICATOR.  311 

othpr  hand,  objection  to  it,  as  mere  objection,  is  cowardice  and 
selfishness  ;  cowardice,  for  fear  of  responsibility  ;  selfishnesSj  for  fear 
of  losing  a  certain  property  in  our  self-respect,  and  having  the  nation 
of  our  own  wisdom  and  sufficiency  disturbed.  You  may  know  the 
goodness  of  either  in  proportion  to  it's  enthusiasm,  sincerity,  gentle- 
ness, and  wish  to  reason.  You  may  know  the  badness,  by  a  certaia 
mixture  of  coldness  and  violence,  by  it's  shuffling,  it's  petulance,  and 
it's  tendency  to  dismiss  a  subject  at  once  with  abuse.  As  to  the  innova-^ 
tor,  it  is  his  business  to  make  up  his  mind  to  a  certain  portion  of  mis- 
representation ;  for  who  was  the  innovator,  great  or  small,  that  ever 
was  without  it?  But  it  is  his  business  also  to  examine  narrowly  into 
his  own  consciousness,  and  to  be  sure,  from  experiment,  that  he  can 
deny  himself  for  the  good  of  others,  what  he  would  willingly  enjoy 
with  them  in  common. 

There  is  not  a  liberal  opinion  now  existing,  which  has  not  gone 
through  heaps  of  ugly  faces  and  yelling  threats,  like  the  saints  in  the 
old  pictures.  To  differ  in  religious  faith  was  once  thought  the  height 
of  undeniable  villainy ;  and  is  so  still  by  some  ignorant  sects.  The 
Spaniards  were  taught  to  believe  that  all  heretics  had  monster-like 
faces,  till  Lord  Peterborough's  officers  persuaded  the  nuns  otherwise. 
Milton  says  that  he  could  not  propose  some  new  things  even  after  an 
ancient  fashion,  (and  indeed  almost  every  proposition  for  human  im- 
provement is  to  be  found  in  the  ancient  writers),  but  ^ 

Straight  a  hideous  noise  environs  me 

Of  owls  and  cuckoos,  asses,  apes,  and  dogs;  — 

As  when  tliose  hinds  tiiat  were  transformed  to  frogt 
Railed  at  Latona's  twin-born  progeny, 
Which  after  held  tiie  sun  and  moon  in  fee. 

It  is  lamentable  to  see  such  a  man  as  Bacon  trying  to  feel  his'way  into 
popular  persuasion,  by  smoothing  the  king's  and  people's  prejudices  as 
he  goes,  giving  even  into  the  superstitions  about  witchcraft.  A  friend 
was  observing  to  us  a  short  time  since,  that  he  was  not  aware  of  the 
existence  of  any  denouncement  of  cruelty  to  animals,  till  Pope  wrote  a 
paper  on  it  in  the  Guardian.  Shakspeare,  who  says  every  thing,  has 
said  something  about  "  the  poor  beetle  whom  we  tread  upon,  feeling 
as  great  a  pang  as  when  a  giant  dies  ;"  but"  it  is  only  in  a  cursory  man- 
ner, and  by  way  of  illustration.  His  reflections  upon  the  hunted  stag, 
as  if  by  way  of  excuse  for  the  novelty  of  their  sympathy,  are  put  into 
the  mouth  of  an  eccentric  and  saturnine  philosopher.  His  age  indeed, 
so  great  and  humane  in  many  respecfsi,  was  so  insensible  in  this  parti- 
cular point,  that  one  of  the  greatest  and  humanest  of  its  ornaments,  Sir 
Philip  Sidney,  describes  his  ladies  and  courtiers  as  laudably  diverting 
themselves  with  sealing  up  a  dove's  eyes,  to  see  it  strain  higher  and  higher 
into  the  light, — with  other  "  cunning"  diversions  too  gross  and  cruel 
to  repeat.  Poor  ignorant  old  beldams,  whom  their  neighbours  or  them- 
selves took  for  witches,  were  put  to  death  at  a  later  period,  with  great 
approbation,  not  only  of  the  "  British  Solomon,"  King  James,  but  of 
a  high  legal  Authority,  and  even  the  good  old  Sir  Matthew  Hale. 
The  celebrated  Robert  Boyle,  as  our  readers  know,  was  accounted  a. 
sort  of  perfection  of  a  man,  esppcially  in  all  respects  intellectual^  moral^ 


sn  THE  INDrCATOR. 

and  religious.  This  excellenf  person  was  in  the  habii  of  moralizing  upon 
<>very  thing  that  he  did  or  suffered,  such  as  "  Upon  his  manner  of  giving 
meat  to  his  dog,"—."  Upon  his  horse  stumbling  in  a  very  fair  way," — • 
*'  Upon  his  silting  at  easo  in  a  coach  that  went~very  fast,"  «fcc.  Among 
other  Reflections,  is  one  "  Upon  a  fish's  struggling  after  having  swal- 
lowed the  hook."  It  amounts  to  this  ;  that  at  the  moment  when  the 
fish  thinks  himself  about  to  be  most  haj'py,  the  hook  "does  so  wound 
and  tear  his  tender  gills,  and  thereby  puts  him  into  such  resllew  pain, 
that,no  doubt  he  wishes  the  hook,  fjait  and  all,  wore  out  of  his  torn 
jaws  again.  Thus,"  says  he,  '•  men  who  do  what  they  should  not  to 
obtain  any  sensual  dtsires,''  &c.  &c.  Not  a  thought  comes  over  him  as 
to  his  own  part  in  the  business,  and  what  he  ought  to  say  of  himself 
for  tearing  the  jaws  and  gills  to  indulge  his  own  appetite  for  excite- 
ment. Take  also  the  following  : — "  Fiftb  Section — Reflection  1.  Kill- 
ing a  crow  (out  of  window)  in  a  hog's  trough,  and  immediately  tracing 
the  ensuing  reflection  with  a  pen  made  of  one  of  his  quills. — Long  and 
patiently  did  I  wait  for  this  unlucky  crow,wallo  wing  in  the  sluttish  trough, 
(whose  sides  kept  him  a  great  while  out  of  the  reach  of  my  gun),  and  gorg- 
ing himself  with  no  less  greediness  than  the  very  swinish  proprietaries  of 
the  feast,  till  at  length  my  no  less  unexpected  than  fatal  shot  in  a 
moment  struck  him  down,  and  turning  the  scene  of  his  delight  into 
that  of  hiis  pangs,  made  him  abruptly  alter  his  note,  and  change  his 
triumphant  chauiit  into  a  dismal  and  tragic  noise.  This  method  is 
ivot  unusual  to  diviile  justice  towards  brawny  and  incorrigfble  sinners," 
&,c.  &c.  Thus  the  crow,  for  eating  his  dinner,  is  a  rascal -worthy  to 
be  ^hot  by  the, Honourable  Mr.  Robert  Boyle,  before  the  latter  sits 
down  to  his  own;  while  the  said  Mr.  Boyle,  instead  of  cotitentiijg 
himself  with  being  a  gentleman  in  search  of  amusement  at  the  expence 
of  birds  and  fish,  is  a  representative  of  Divine  Justice. 

We  laugh  at  this  wretched  moral  pedantry  now,  and  deplore  the 
involo  rfary  hard-lieartedness  which  such  mistakes  in  religion'  tended 
to  produce ;  but  in  how  many  respects  should  it  nrtt  make  us  look 
about  us,  and  see  where  we  fall  short  oLan  enlargemtjat  of  thinking  > 


TO  COr.RESPONDENTS. 
jt  TmsStory  will  be  Ins'erled  with  plensure. 


Printed  and  pnbt!sh<-cl   hy  Joseph  Applevard,  No.  19,  Cnlliprir.c-strpet,  Stranvl. 

Price  2d. — And  sold  ni«o  by  A.  Guddon,  Importer  of  SnnfF:',  No.  31,  Tavistork- 
'     slrret,  Covent-garden.     Orders  received  at   thfi  above  place)',  and   by  all  Book- 

sellei'.s  and  Newsmen. 


THE    INDICATOR 


There  he  arriving  round  about  doth  flie, 
And  takes  survey  vfith  busie  curious  eye : 
Now  this,  now  that,  he  tasteth  tenderly. 

Spenser. 


No.  XL.— WEDNESDAY,   JULY  12th,    1820. 


SUPERFINE  BREEDING. 


TitBRE  is  an  anecdote  in  Aulus  Gellius  (Noctcs  Atlicae,  Lib.  10, 
Cap.  6,)  which  exhibits,  we  think,  one  of  the  highest  instances  of  what 
may  be  called  polite  "blackguardism  that  we  ever  remember  to  have 
read.  The  fastidionsness,  self-will,  and  infinite  resentment  against  a 
multitude  of  one's  fellow-creatures  for  presoRiing  to  come  in  contact 
with  one's  own  importance,  are  truly  edifying :  and  to  complete  the 
lesson,  this  extraordinary  specimen  of  the  eflfect  of  superfine  breeding 
and  blood  is  handed  down  to  us  in  the  person  of  a  lady.  Her  words  . 
might  be  thought  to  have  been  a  bad  joke;  and  bad  enough  it  would 
have  been;  but  the  sense  that  was  shewn  of  them  proves  them  to  have 
been  very  gravely  regarded. 

Claudia,  the  daughter  of  Appius:^  Caecus,  in  coming  ftway  from  a 
public  spectacle,  was  much  pressed  and  pushed  about  by  the  crowd; 
upon  which  she  thus  vented  her  impatience :— *'  What  should  I  have 
suffered  now,  and  how  much  more  should  I  have  been  squeezed  and 
knocked  about,  if  my  brother  Publias  Claudius  had  not  had  his  ships 
destroyed  in  battle,  with  all  that  heap  of  men  ?  I  should  have  been 
absolutely  jammed  to  death !  Would  to  heaven  my  brother  were 
alive  again,  and  could  go  with  another  fleet  to  Sicily,  and  be  the  death 
of  this  host  of  people,  who  plague  and  pester  one  ia  this  horrid 
manner  1"  * 

For  these  words,  *'  so  wicked  and  so  unciviCy"  says  good  old  Gel- 
lius, (tarn  invproba  ac  tarn  incivilia)  the  iEdiles,  Caius  Fundanus  and 
Tiberius  Sempronius,  got  the  lady  fined  in  the  sum  of  twenty-five 
thousand  pounds  brass.  There  is  a  long  account  in  Livy  of  the  speech 
which  they  made  to  the  people,  in  reply  to  the  noble  families  that  in- 
terceded for  her.  It  is  very  indignant.  Claudia  herself  confessed  her 
words,  and  does  not  appear  to  have  joined  in  the  intercession.  They 
are  not  related  at  Such  length  by  Livy,  as  by  Aulus  Gellius;.     He 

*  '^  Quid  me  nunc  factum  CBsef,  quantoque  arctiuBpressiasque  conflictata  essem* 
siP.  CUudins  frater  meusnavali  praelio  classera  navium  cumingenti  civium  numero 
non  perdidisset?  cerlfe  quidem  majore  nunc  copii  populi  oppresea  intercidissem. 
Sed  utinam,  inquit,  reviviscat  frater,  aliamque  classem  in  Siciltam  ducat,  at^uc- 
slam  muUitudinem  perditum  eat^  quae  me  male  nunc  miseram  convexavit." 


314  THE  INDICATOR. 

merely  makes  her  wish  that  her  brother  were  alive  to  take  out  another 
fleet.  But  he  shews  his  own  sense  of  the  ebullition  by  calling  it  a 
dreadful  imprecation ;  and  her  rage  was  even  more  gratuitous  accord- 
ing to  his  account,  for  he  describes  her  as  coming  from  the  shews  in  a 
chariot. 

Insolence  and  want  of  feeling  appear  to  have  been  hereditary  in  this 
Appian  family  :  which  gives  us  also  a  strong  sense  of  their  want  of 
capacity ;  otherwise  a  disgust  at  such  manners  must  have  been  gene- 
rated in  some  of  the  children.  They  were  famous  for  opposing  every 
popular  law,  and  for  having  kept  the  Commons  as  long  as^  possible  out 
of  any  share  in  public  honours  and  government.  The  villain  Appius 
Claudius,  whose  well-known  story  has  lately  been  made  still  more 
familiar  to  the  public  by  the  tragedy  of  Mr.  Knowles,  was  among  it's 
ancestors.  Appius  Caecus,  or  the  Blind,^  the  father  of  Claudia,  though 
he  constructed  the  celebrated  Appian  Way  and  otherwise  benefited 
the  city,  was  a  very  unpopular  man,  wilful,  haughty,  and  lawless.  He 
retained  possession  of  the  Censorship  beyond  the  limited  period.  It  is 
an  instance  perhaps  of  his  unpopularity,  as  well  as  of  the  superstition 
of  the  timeSj  that  having  made  a  change  in  one  of  the  priestly  offices, 
and  become  blind  some  years  afterwards,  the  Romans  attributed  it  to 
the  vengeance  of  heaven ;  an  opinion  which  Livy  repeats  with  great 
devotion,  calling  it  a  warning  against  innovations  in  religion.  It  had 
BO  effect  however  upon  Claudius  the  brother,  whose  rashness  furnished 
the  pious  Romans  with  a  similar  example  to  point  at.  Before  an  en- 
gagement with  the  Carthaginians,  the  Sacred  Chickens  were  consulted, 
and  because  they  would  not  peck  and  furnish  him  with  a  good  omen, 
he  ordered  them  to  be  thrown  into  the  sea.  *'  If  they  won't 
eat,"  said  he,  *'  let  *em  drink."  The  engagement  was  one  of  the 
vrorst  planned,  and  the  worst  fought  in  the  world ;  but  the  men  were 
aTOwedly  dispirited  by  the  Consul's  irreverend  behaviour  to  the 
chickens ;  and  his  impiety  shared  the  disgrace  with  his  folly.  Livy 
represents  him  as  an  epitome  of  all  that  was  bad  in  his  family;  proud, 
Stubborn,  unmerciful  though  full  of  faults  himself,  and  wilful  and  pre- 
cipitate to  a  degree  of  madness.  This  was  the  battle,  of  which  his 
sister  wished  to  see  a  repetition.  It  cost  the  Remans  ipany  ships  sunk, 
ninety-three  taken,  and  according  to  the  historian,  the  miraculous  loss 
of  eight  thousand  men  killed  and  twenty  thousand  taken  prisoners, 
VfhWe  the  Carthaginians  lost  not  a  ship  or  a  man. 


SHAKING  HANDS. 


Among  the  first  things  which  we  remember  noticing  in  the  manners 
of  peoplej  were  two  errors  in  the  custom  of  shaking  hands.  Some  we 
observed,  grasped  every  body's  hand  alike, — with  an  equal  fervour  of 
gtip.  You  would  have  thought  that  Jenkins  was  the  best  friend  they 
had  in  the  world;  but  on  succeeding  to  the  squeeze,  though  a  slight 
acquaintance,  you  found  it  equally  flattering  to  yourself;  and  on  the 
appearance  of  somebody  else  (whose  name,  if  turned  out,  the  operator 


THE  INDICATOR.  315 

had  forgotten,)  the  crush  was  no  less  complimentary  :--the  face  was  as 
earnest  and  beaming,  the  "  glad  to  see  you"  as  syllabical  and  sincere, 
and  the  shake  as  close,  as  long,  and  as  rejoicing,  as  if  the  semi-unknowa 
was  a  friend  come  home  from  the  Desarts. 

On  the  other  hand,  there  would  be  a  gentleman  now  and  then  as 
coy  of  his  hand,  as  if  he  "Vfere  a  prude  or  had  a  whitlow.  It  was  in 
vain,  that  your  pretensions  did  not  go  beyond  the  "  civil  salute"  of 
the  ordinary  shake ;  or  that  being  introduced  to  him  in  a  friendly  man- 
ner  and  expected  to  shake  hands  with  the  rest  of  the  company,  you 
could  hot  in  decency  omit  his.  His  fingers,  half  coming  out,  and  half 
retreating,  seemed  to  think  that  you  were  going  to  do  them  a  mis- 
chief; and  when  you  got  hold  of  them,  the  whole  shake  was  on  your 
side :  the  other  hand  did  but  proudly  or  pensively  acquiesce,— i-there 
was  no  knowing  which  :  you  had  to  sustain  it,  as  you  might  a  lady's  in 
handing  her  to  a  scat ;  and  it  was  an  equal  perplexity  to  know  how  to 
shake  or  to  let  it  go.  The  one  seemed  a  violence  dene  to  the 
patient ;  the  other  an  aukward  responsibility  brought  upon  yourself. 
You  did  not  know,  all  the  evening,  whether  you  were  not  an  object  of 
dislike  to  the  person ;  till  on  the  party's  breaking  up,  you  saw  him 
behave  like  an  equally  ill-used  gentleman,  to  all  who  practised  the 
same  unthinking  civility. 

Both  these  errors,  we  think,  might  as  well  be  avoided:  but  of  the 
tpo,  we  must  say  we  prefer  the  former.  If  it  does  not  look  so  much 
like  particular  sincerity,  it  looks  more  like  general  kindness ;  and  if 
those  two  virtues  are  to  be  separated,  (which  they  assuredly  need  not 
be,  if  considered  without  spleen)  the  ^orld  can  better  afford  to  dis- 
pense with  an  unpleasant  truth  than  a  gratuitous  humanity.  Besides, 
it  is  more  difficult  to  make  sure  of  the  one,  than  to  practice  the  other  ; 
arid  kindness  itself  is  the  best  of  all  truths.  As  long  as  we  are  sure  of 
^at,  we  are  sure  of  something,  and  of  something  pleasant.  It  is 
always  the  best  end,  if  not  in  every  instance  the  most  logieal  means. 

This  manual  shyness  is  sometimes  attributed  to  modesty,  but  never, 
we  suspect,  with  justice,  unless  it  be  that  sort  of  modesty,  whose  fear 
of^ommitting  itself  is  grounded  in  pride.  "Want  of  address  is  a  better 
reason,  but  this  particular  instance  of  it  would  be  grounded  in  the 
same  feeling.  It  always  implies  a  habit  either  of  pride  or  distrust.- 
We  have  rajet  with  two  really  kind  men,  who  evinced  this  soreness  of 
hand.  ■  Neither  of  them  perhaps  thought  himself  inferior  to  any  body 
About  hiin,  and  both  had  good  reason  to  think  highly  of  themselves  ; 
but  both  had  been  sanguine  men  contradicted  in  their  early  hopes. 
There  wjsbs  a  plot  to  meet  the  hand  of  one  of  them  with  a  fish-slice,  in 
order  tx)  shew  him  the  disadvantage  to  which  he  put  his  friends  by  that 
flat  mode  of  salutation  ;  but  the  conspirator  had  not  the  courage  to  do 
it.  Whether  he  heard  of  the  intention,  we  know  not ;  but  shortly 
afterwards  he  took  very  kindly  to  a  shake.  The  other  was  tke  only 
naan  of  a  warm  set  of  politicians,  who  remained  true  to  his  first  love  of 
mankind.  ,He  was  impatient  at  the  change  of  his  companions  and  at 
the  folly  and  inattention  of  the  rest ;  but  though  his  manner  became 
cold,  his  consistency  still  remained  warm ;  and  this  gave  him  a  righlfc 
to  be  as^strange  as  he  pleased.  • 


316  THE  INDICATOR. 


ON  RECEIVING  A  SPRIG  OF  LAUREL  FROM  VAUCLUSE. 

And  this  piece  of  laurel  is  from  Vaucluse  I  Perhaps  Petrarch,  per- 
haps Laura,  sat  under  it !  This  is  a  true  present.  What  an  exquisite 
dry  old,  vital,  young-looking,  everlasting  twig  it  is!  It  has  been 
plucked  nine  months,  and  looks  as  hale  and  as  crisp  as  if  it  would  last 
ninety  years.  It 'shall  last  at  any  rate  as  long  as  it's  owner,  and 
longer,  if  care  and  love  can  preserve  it.  How^  beautifully  it  is  turned  ! 
It  was  a  happy  pull  from  the  tree.  It's  shape  is  the  very  line  of 
hcauty ;  it  has  berries  upon  it,  as  if  resolved  to  shew  us  in  what  fine 
condition  the  trees  are  ;  while  the  leaves  issue  from  it,  and  swerve  up- 
wards with  their  elegant  points,  as  though  they  had  come  from  adorn- 
ing the  poet's  head.  Be  thou  among  the  best  of  one's  keepsakes,  thou 
gentle  stem, — in  deliciis  nostris ; — and  may  the  very  maid-servant  who 
wonders  to  see  thy  withered  beauty  in  it's  frame,  miss  her  lover  the 
next  five  weeks,  for  not  having  the  instinct  to  know  that  thou  must 
have  something  to  do  with  love. 

Perhaps  Petrarch  has  felt  (he  old  ancestral  boughs  of  this  branch, 
stretching  over  his  head,  and  whispering  to  him  of  the  name  of  Laura, 
of  his  love,  and  of  their  future  glory;  for  all  these  ideas  used  to  be 
entwined  in  one.  (Sestina  2,  Canzone  17,  Sonetti  162,  163,  164, 
iZ07,  224,  &c.)  Perhaps  it  is  of  the  very  slock  of  that  bough,  which 
he  describes  as  supplying  his  mistress  with  a  leaning-stock  when  she 
sat  in  her  favourite  bower.     (See  the  translation  at  the  end.) 

Giovanf!  donna  sotto.  un  verde  lauro 

Vidi  piu  bianca  e  piu  fredda  che  neve 

Noil  percossa  dwl  sol  molti  e  molt'  aiiiii: 

E'l  9U0  parlar,  e'l  hel  viso,  e  le  cliiome. 

Mi  ptacquer  si,  cW  i'  I'lio  a  gli  ocelli 

Ed  avio  sempre,  ov'io  sia  in  poggio  o'n  riva. 

Vol.  J ,  Sestiiia  2. 

A  yoiitliful  lady  under  a  green  laurel  '' 

I  saw,  more  fair  and  cold&r  than  white  snows 

Unshone  upon  for  many  and  many  a  year: 

And  her  sweet  looks,  and  hair,  and  way  of  speaking, 

So  pleased  me,  that  I  have  her  now  before  me, 

And  shall  have,  ever,  wliether  on  hill  or  lea. 

The  laurel  seems  more  approprijited  to  Petrarch  than  to  any  other 
poet.  He  delighted  to  sit  under  it's  leaves  ;  he  loved  it  both  for  itself, 
and  for  the  resemblance  of  it's  name  to  that  of  his  mistress  ;  he  wrote 
of  it  continually;  and  he  was  called  from  out  of  it's  shade,  to  be 
crowned  with  it  in  the  Capitol.  It  is  a  remarkable  instance  of  the 
fondne.ss  with  which  he  cherished  the  united  ideas  of  Laura  atid  the 
laurel,  that  he  confesses  it  to  have  been  one  of  the  greatest  delights  he 
experienced  in  receiving  the  crown  upon  his  head. 

It  >vas  out  of  Vaucluse  that  he  was  called.     Vaucluse,  Valchiiisa, 
the  Shut  Valley,  (from  which  the  French,  in  the  modern  enthusiasm 
for  intellect,  gave  the  name  to  the  department  in  which  it  lies),  is  a^ 
remarkable  spot  in  the  old  poetical  region  of  Provence,  consisting  of  a* 
little  deep  glen  of  green  meadows  surrounded  with  rocks,  and  contain- 
ing the  fountain  of  the  river  Sorgue.     Petrarch,  when  a  boy  of  eight  or 


THE  INDICATOR.  317 

nine  years  of  age,  had  been  struck  with  it's,  beauty,  and  exclaimed  that 
it  was  the  place  of  all  others  he  should  like  io  live  in,  better  than  the 
most  splendid  cities.  He  resided  there  afterwards  for  several  years, 
and  composed  in  it  the  greater  part  of  his  poems.  Indeed,  he  says  in 
his  own  account  of  himself,  that  he  either  wrote  or  conceived  in  that 
valley  almost  every  work  he  produced.  He  lived  in  a  little  cottage 
with  a  small  homestead,  on  the  banks  of  the  river.  Here  he  thought 
to  forget  his  passion  for  Laura,  and  here  he  found  it  stronger  than 
ever.  We  do  not  well  see  how  it  could  have  been  otherwise;- for 
Laura  lived  no  great  way  off,  at  Chabrieres  :  and  he  appears  to  have 
seen  her  often  in  the  very  place.  He  paced  along  the  river ;  he  sat 
under  the  trees ;  he  climbed  the  mountains  j  but  Love,  he  says,  was 
ever  by  his  side, 

Rpgionando  con  meco,  ed  io  con  lui. 

He  Lolding  talk  with  me,  and  I  with  him. 

We  are  supposing  thai  all  our  readers  are  acquainted  with  Petrarch. 
Many  of  them  doubtless  know  him  intimately.  Should  any  of  them 
want  an  introduction  to  him,  how  should  we  speak  of  him  in  the  gross  ? 
We  should  say,  that  he  was  one  of  the  finest  gentlemen  and  greatest 
scholars  that  ever  lived  ;  that  he  was  a  writer  w  ho  flourished  in  Italy 
in  the  14th  century  at  the  time  when  Chaucer  was  young,  during  the 
reigns  of  our  Edwards  ;  that  he  was  the  greatest  light  of  his  age;  that 
although  so  fine  a  writer  himself,  and  the  author  of  a  multitude  of 
works,  or  rather  because  he  was  both,  he  took  the  greatest  pains  to 
revive  the  knowledge  of  the  ancient  learning,  recommending  it  every 
where,  and  copying  out  large  manuscripts  with  his  own  hand ; 
that  two  great  cities,  Paris  and  Rome,  contended  which  should  have 
the  honour  of  crowning  him  ;  that  he  was  crowned  publicly,  in  the 
Metropolis  of  the  AVorld,  with  laurel  and  with  myrtle  ;  that  he  was 
the  friend  of  Boccaccio,  the  Father  of  Italian  Prose  ;  and  lastly,  that 
his  greatest  renown  nevertheless,  as  well  as  the  predominant  feelings 
of  his  existence,  arose  from  the  long  love  he  bore  for  a  lady  of  Avignon, 
the  far-famed  Laura,  whoishefell  in  love  with  on  the  Cth  of  April, 
1327,  on  a  Good  Friday ;  whom  be  rendered  illustrious  in  a  multi- 
tude of  sonnets,  which  have  left  a  sweet  sound  and  sentiment  in  the 
ear  of  all  after  lovers ;  and  who  died,  still  passionately  beloved,  in  the 
year  1348,  on  the  same  day  and  hour  on  which  he  first  beheld  her. 
Who  she  was,  or  why  their  connexion  was  not  closer,  remains  a  mys- 
4ery.  But  that  she  was  a  real  person,  and  that  in  spite  of  all  her 
modesty  she  did  not  shew  an  insensible  countenance  to  his  passion,  is 
clear  from  his  long-hauntod  imagination,  from  his  own  repeated 
accounts,  from  all  that  he  wrote,  uttered,  and  thought.  One  love, 
and  one  poet,  sufficed  to  give  the  whole  civilized  world  a  sense  of  deli- 
cacy in  desire,  of  the  abundant  riches  to  be  found  in  one  single  idea, 
and  of  the  going  out  of  a  man's  self  to  dwell  in  the  soul  and  happiness 
of  another,  which  has  served  to  refine  the  passion  for  all  modern 
times;  and  perhaps  will  do  so,  as  long  as  love  renews  the  world. 

By  way   of    completing   this    ebullition    on  Petrarch,  Avhich  has 
been  unexpectedly  excited  in  us,  (for  we  intended  to  devote  a  longer 


*18  THE  INDICATOR. 

and  perhaps  a  duller  article  to  him  by  and  by),  we  will  conclude  it 
with  a  translationof  his  most  celebrated  canzone,  which  was  addressed 
to  the  river  Sorgue  and  it's  bowers.  It  has  appeared  before,  though 
not  in  a  place  so  suitable  as  the  present ;  and  as  we  have  been  asked  to 
TC-print  it,  before  we  ever  thought  of  doing  so,  we  repeat  it  with  the 
less  scruple.    It  is  the  I4th  Canzone,  Vol.  1.,  beginning, 

CHIARC,  FRESCUE,  r  DOLCE  ACQUE. 

Clear,  fresh,  and  dulcet  streams. 

Which  the  fair  shape,  who  seems 

To  me  sole  woman,  haunted  at  noon-tide  ;  ^ 

Bough,  gently  interknit, 

(I  sigh  to  think  of  it) 

Which  formed  a  rustic  chair  for  her  sweet  side  j 

And  turf,  and  flowers  bright-eyed. 

O'er  which  her  folded  gown 

Flowed  like  an  angel's  down  ; 

And  you,  O  holy  air  and  hush'd. 

Where  first  my  heart  at  her  sweet  glances  gush'di 

Give  ear,  give  ear,  with  one  consenting, 

To  my  last  words,  my  last  and  my  lamenting. 

If 'tis  my  fate  below, 

And  heaven  will  have  it  so. 

That  love  must  close  these  dying  eyes  in  tears. 

May  my  poor  dust  be  laid 

In  middle  of  your  shade, 

While  my  soul,  naked,  mounts  to  it's  own  spheres* 

Tlie  thought  would  calm  my  fears. 

When  taking,  out  of  breath, 

The  doubtful  step  of  death ; 

For  never  could  my  spirit  find 

A  stiller  port  after  the  storiiiy  wind ; 

Nor  in  more. calm,  abstracted  bourne. 

Slip  from  my  travail  lad  flesh,  and  from  my  bones  out-worq, 

Perhaps,  some  future  hour. 
To  her  accustomed  bower 

Might  come  the  untamed,  and  yet  the  gentle  shej 
Aud  where  she  saw  me  first, 
Mifrht  turn  with  eyes  athirst 
Aud  kinder  joy  to  look  again  for  rae; 
Then,  Oh  the  charity ! 
Seeinj^  betwixt  the  stones 
'  The  earth  that  held  my  bones, 

A  sigh  for  very  love  at  last 
Might  ask  of  heaven  to  pardon  me  the  past  i 
And  heaven  itself  could  not  say  nay. 
As  with  her  gentle  veil  she  wiped  the  tears  away. 

How  well  I  call  to  mind, 

When  from  those  boughs  the  wind    - 

Shook  down  upon  her  bosom  flower  on  flower; 

And  there  she  sat,  meek-eyed. 

In  midst  of  all  that  pride. 

Sprinkled  and  blushing  through  an  amorous  shower. 

Some  to  her  hair  paid  dower. 

And  seemed  to  dress  the  curls. 

Queenlike,  with  gold  and  pearls; 

Some,  snowing,  pn  her  drapery  stopp'd, 

Sonle  OH  the  earth,  some  on  the  water  dropp'd  ; 

While  others,  fluttering  from  above, 

Seemed  wheeling  round  in  pomp,  aud  saying  "  Here  reigns  Love." 


THE  INDICATOR.  319 

How  often  then  I  said. 

Inward,  and  filTd  with  dread, 

— "  Doubtless  this  creature  came  from  Paradise!" 

For  at  her  look  the  while, 

Her  voice,  and  her  sweet  smile, 

And  heavenly  air,  truth  parted  from  mine  eyes; 

So  that,  with  long-drawn  sighs, 

I  said,  as  far  from  men, 

"  How  came  I  here,  and  when  !" 

I  had  forgotten  ;  and  alas, 

Fancied  myself  in  heav'n,  not  where  I  was  ;  ^ 

And  from  that  time  till  tliis,  I  bear 

Such  love  for  the  green  Bower,  I  cannot  rest  elsewhere. 


A  TRUE  STORY. 
TO   THE   INDICATOR. 

Sir, — When  I  was  a  young  boy,  I  had  delicate  health,  and  was 
somewhat  of  a  pensive  and  contemplative  turn  of  mind :  it  was  my 
delight  in  the  long  summer  evenings  to  slip  away  from  my  noisy  and 
more  robust  companions,  that  I  might  walk  in  the  shade  of  a  venerable 
wood,  my  favourite  haunt,  and  listen  to  the  cawing  of  the  old  rooks, 
who  seemed  as  fond  of  this  retreat  as  I  was. 

One  evening- 1  sat  later  than  usual,  though  the  distant  sound  of  the 
cathedral  clock  had  more  than  once  warned  me  to  my  home.  There 
was  a  stillness  in  all  nature  that  I  was  unwilling  to  disturb  by  the  least 
motion.  From  this  reverie  I  was  suddenly  startled  by  the  sight  of  a 
tall  slender  female  who  was  standing  by  me,  looking  sorrowfully  and 
steadily  in  my  face.  She  was  dressed  in  white,  from  head  to  foot,  ia 
a  fashion  I  had  never  seen  before  ;  her  garments  were  unusually  long 
and  flowing,  and  rustled  as  she  glided  through  the  low  shrubs  near  me 
as  if  they  were  made  of  the  richest  silk.  My  heart  beat  as  if  I  was 
dying,  and  I  knew  not  that  I  could  have  stirred  from  the  spot ;  but 
she  seemed  so  very  mild  and  beautiful,  I  did  not  attempt  it.  Her  pale 
brown  hair  was  braided  round  her  head,  but  there  were  some  locks 
that  strayed  upon  her  neck  ;  and  altogether  she  looked  like  a  lovely 
picture,  but  not  like  a  living  woman.  I  closed  my  eyes,forcibly  with 
my  hands,  and  when  I  looked  again  she  had  vanished. 

I  cannot  exactly  say  why  I  did  not  on  my  return  speak  of  this  beau- 
tiful appearance,  nor  why,  with  a  strange  mixture  of  hope  and  fear,  I 
went  again  and  again  to  the  same  spot  that  I  might  see  her.  She 
always  came,  and  often  in  the  storm  and  plashing  rain,  that  never 
seemed  to  touch  or  to  annoy  her,  and  looked  sweetly  at  me,  and 
silently  passed  on ;  and  though  she  was  so  near  to  me,  that  once  the 
wind  lifted  those  liglit  straying  locks,  and  I  felt  them  against  my 
cheek,  yet  I  never  could  move  or  speak  to  her.  I  fell  ill ;  and  when  I 
recovered,  my  mother  closely  questioned  me  of  the  tall  lady,  of  whom, 
in  the  height  of  my  fever,  I  had  so  often  spoken. 

I  cannot  tell  you  what  a  weight  was  taken  from  my  boyish  spirits, 
when  I  learnt  that  this  was  no  apparition,  but  a  most  lovely  woman  ; 


320  THE  INDK^ATOR. 

not  young,  tliough  ahe  had  kept  her. young  looks,  for  the  griof  which 
had  broken  hor  heart  sfemcd  to  have  spared  her  beauty. 

Whed  the  rebel  troops  were  retreating  after  their  total  defeat,  in 
that  very  wood  I  vras  so  fond  of,  a  young  officer,  utiable  any  longer  to 
vndure  the  anguish  of  his  wounds,  sunk  from  his  horse,  and  laid  him- 
self down  to  die.  He  was  found  there  by  the  daughter  of  Sir  Henry 
R  '  ,  and  conveyed  by  a  trusty  dorhestic  to  her  father's  mansion. 
Sir  Henry  vpas  a  loyalist ;  but  the  officer's  desperate  condition  excited 
his  compassion,  and  his  many  wounds  spoke  a  language  a  brave  man 
could  not  misunderstand.  Sir  Henry's  daughter  with  many  tears 
pleaded  for  him,  and  pronounced  that  he  should  be  carefully  and 
secretly  attended.  And  well  she  kept  that  promise,  for  she  waited 
upon  him  (her  mother  being  long  dead)  for- many  weeks,  and  anxiously 
watched  for  the  first  opening  of  eyes,  that,  languid  ois  he  was,  looked 
brightly  and  gratefully  upon  his  young  nurse. 

You  may  fancy  better  than  I  can  tell  you,  as  he  slowly  recovered, 
all  the*[ioraents  that  were  spent  in:  reading,  and  low-voiced  singing, 
and  gentle  playing  on  the  lute,  and  how  many. fresh  flowers. were 
brought  to  one  whose  woujided  limbs  would.  i)ot  bear  him  to  gather 
them  for  himself,  and  how  calmly  the  days  glided  on  in  the  blessedness 
of  returning  health,  and -in  that  sweet  silence  so  carefully  enjoined 
him.  .  I  will  pass  by  this  to  speak  of  one  day,  which,  brighter  and 
pleasanter  than  others,  did  not  seem  more  bright  or  more  lovely  than 
.the-iookS  of  the  young  maiden,  as  she  gaily  spoke  of  "  a  little  festival 
.which  (though  it  must  bear  an  unworthier  name)  she  meant  really  to 
give  in  honour  of  her  guest's  recovery  ;"  *'  and  it  is  tim.e,  lady,"  said. 
4ie,  "  fox  that  guest  so  tended  and  so  honoured^  to  tell  you  his  whole 
fitiory,  and  speak  to  you  of  one  who  will  help  him  to  thank  you:-,  may, 
i  ask  you,  fair  lady,  to  write  a  little  billet  for  me,  which  e.ven  in  these 
times  of  danger. I  may  find  some  me^ns  to  forward?"  To  his  mother, 
no  doubt,  she  thought,  as  with  lightsteps  and  a  lighter  heart  she  seated 
Jierself  by  his  couch,  and  smilingly  bade  him  dictate ;  but,  when  he 
said."  My  dear  wife,"  and  lifted  up  his  eyes  to  be  asked  for  more,he 
saw  before  him  a  pale  statue,  that  gave  him  one  look  of  utter  despair, 
and  fell,  for  he  had  no  power  to  help  her,  heavily  at  his  feet.  Those 
eyes  never  truly  reflected  the  pure  soul  again,  or  answered  by  answering 
}ooks  the  food  enquiries  of  her  poor  old  father.  She  lived  to  be  as  T  saw 
iier,'->-sweet  and  gentle,  and  delicate  always  ;  but  reason  returned  no 
more.  She.  visited  till  the  day  of  her  death  the  spot  where  she  first 
saw  that  young  soldier,  and  dressed  herself  in  the  very  clothes  that  he 
isaid  so  well  became  her.  A. 


hit 


t  '^t  lif  vr.MC'i'.  . 


Prinffd  an(1  pub)!s1iAcl   Iiy  Joseph  Appletaiid,  No,  19,  Cnllierine-street,  Slrancf. 

*  Price  2d. — Aiul  sold  also  by  A.  Gliddon,  Importer  of  SnuRH,  No.  31,  Tavistock- 
sireet,  Covpnl-frarHen.  Orders  received  at  the  above  plafees,  and  by  all  Boek'* 
sellers  and  Newsmen.  .     . 


THE    INDICATOR. 


There  he  arriving  round  about  dotli  flie. 
And  takes  survey  with  busie  curious  eye: 
Now  this,  now  that,  hetasteth  tenderly. 

.  Spenser. 


No.  XLL—WEDNESDAY,  JULY  19th,    1820. 


THE  DESTRUCTION  OF  THE  CENCI  FAMILY,  AND  TRAGEDY  ON 
THAT  SUBJECT. 

We  lay  before  our  readers  in  the  present  number  the  substance  of  a 
remarkable  document,  containing  the  authorities  for  the  tragedy  which 
has  lately  appeared  on  the  same  subject,  and  which  we  shall  afterwards 
proceed  to  notice.  Criticism  is  not  intended  to  be  a  feature  in  this 
our  very  competent  and  agreeable  miscellany,  especially  criticism  of  a 
hostile  nature.  But  like  our  illustrious  predecessors  the  Tatler  and 
Spectator,  and  their  fine  old  father  Montaigne,  we  shall  not  hesitate 
now  and  then  to  notice  some  new  and  excellent  work,  or  to  yindicatfe 
some  great  endeavours  on  the  part  of  a  friend,  the  natupe/>f  which 
may  require  a  more  than  ordinary  introduction  to  the  publics 

It  has  been  supposed  by  some,  we  understand,  that  the  author  of  the 
Cenci  has  overcharged  his  Story ;  and  these  and  other  persons  think 
that  it  is  too  horrible  to  tell.  We  are  no  admirers  of  horrid  stories 
in  general,  as  we  have  observed  in  the  prefatory  remarks  to  our  owa 
grim  perpetration,  the  Tale  for  a  Chimney  Corner,  (Indicator, 
p.  73.)  There  are  some  books  in  very  good  request,  and. with  very 
delicate  people  too, — such  as  Clarissa  Harlowe, — which  with  all  their 
undoubted  genius  we  would  as  soon  read  again,  as  see  a  man  run  the 
gauntlet  from  here  to  Land's  End.  The  pain  is  too  long  drawn  out, 
and  the  author's  portait  looks  too  fat  and  comfortable.  There  are 
also  plays,  not  so  clever,  such  as  George  Barnwell  and  the  Fatal  Mar- 
riage, full  of  half-witted  morals  and  gratuitous  agonies,  which  we 
■would  as  lief  pay  to  have  our  legs  tortured,  as  go  to  see :— admittance 
to  the  red  hot  pincers,  three  and  sixpence;  half-torture,  two  shillings* 
But  as  we  would  avoid  mean  and  unnecessary  pain,  so  it  appears  to  us 
to  be  a  sort  of  moral  cowardice  not  to  look  the  most  appalling  stories 
in  the  face,  that  come  to  beckon  us  towards  hidden  treasures  of 
thought,  or  to  point  out  to  us  some  great  and  awful  endeavour  for 
good.  As  Proteus,  when  his  consulters  grappled  with  him,  changed 
himself  into  figures  of  beasts  and  serpents,  to  frighten  them  from  their 
hold,  but  gave  them  their  answer  if  he  found  it  of  no  avail^so  it  is  with 
these  stories.  They  are  the  Gods  wrestling  with  us  in  fearful  shapes'. 
Their  final  aspect  is  patient,  human,  and  oracular. 

The  moral  of  the  terrible  story  of  the  Cenci,  M'hether  told  in  history 
or  poetry,  is  a  lesson  against  the  enormities  arising  from  bad  education| 


322  THE  INDICATOR. 

from  long  indulged  self-will,  from  the  impunities  of  too  much  wealth 
and  authority,  and  from  tyrannical  and  degrading  notions  of  the  Su- 
preme Being.  It  is  nothing  but  the  old  story  of  the  Neros  and  Ezze- 
lins  in  another  shape.  It  is  will  driven  mad  by  the  power  of  indulging 
itself.  As  to  the  impossibility  of  the  story,  let  those  names  and  the 
writings  of  the  elder  dramatists  answer  all  objections  on  that  scores 
It  is  not  the  abstract  crime  that  is  the  subject  of  consideration,  but  the 
excess  proportioned  to  the  excess  of  the  will  and  to  the  bitterness  of 
the  contradiction.  It  is  the  enormity  that  proves  the  case..  The  un- 
happy patient  is  insane  with  self-will  and  with  the  fury  of  being 
opposed  ;  and  he  will  do  the  worst  and  most  horrible  things,  precisely 
because  he,  as  well  as  others,  knows  them  to  be  the  worst.  His  very  out- 
rages are  testimonies  to  the  beauty  of  virtue.  He  does  not  say  this  to 
himself.  If  he  did,  he  would  not  do  it,  unless  he  were  in  a  state  of  bodily 
as  well  as  moral  disease.  But  such  is  the  instinct  of  his  habits.  The 
question  then  is,  not  how  far  we  can  loathe  to  hear  about  the  frenzies 
of  a  fellow-creature,  but  how  we  can  get  at  the  causes  of  his  frenzy, 
and  help  society  to  guard  against  them  in  all  their  shapes,  great  or 
small.  We  have  thousands  of  Cencis  among  us  in  a  lesser  way, — petty 
liQme  tyrants,  sullen  degraders  of  thie  deity  they  worship,  impudent 
and  eallous  men  of  the  world,  people  that  hate  and  would  vex  others  in 
proportion  as  their  merits  mortify  their  own  want  of  merit,  tempers 
that  work  their  wretched  pleasure  out  of  the  pains  of  those  they  can 
worry,-^in  short,  all  that  come  under  the  poet's  description  of  "  the 
household  fiend," — all  the  spoiled  children  of  power,  high  and  low,— - 
the  victims  of  indulged  perversity  and  of  an  induced  bad  opinion  of 
■God  and  man. 

Upon  these  grounds,  after  giving  way  to  our  first  impulse  of  horror 
and  indignation  at  the  ruffian  old  man  of  the  following  story,  we  can 
pity  him. — But  to  the  story  itself. 

The  Manuscript  was  copied  by  an  Italian  gentleman  from  a  library 
at  Rome,  and  is  entitled.  An  Account  of  the  Death  of  the  Cenci 
Family. 

Francesco  CencI  was  the  only  son  of  a  Roman  lord,  who  had  been 
Treasurer  to  Pope  Pius  the  Fifth,  and  who  left  him  a  clear  annual 
income  of  a  hundred  and  sixty  thousand  scudi.*  Besides  this,  our 
miserable  inheritor  of  wealth  and  impunity  married  a  rich  woman. 
After  the  death  of  this  lady,  he,  took  for  his  second  wife  Lucrezia 
Petroni,  of  a  noble  family  in  the  -same  city.  By  the  former,  he  had 
seven  children.     By  the  latter  none. 

Francesco  hated  these  children.  It  is  a  dreadful  thing  to  say  so  in 
so  many  words  ;  but  the  cause  is  easily  seen  through.  He  led  a  life 
of  the  most  odious  profligacy,  and  was  as  full  of  sullenness  as  vic^. 
His  children  were  intelligent;  their  father*s  example  disgusted  them; 
and  he  saw,  and  could  not  bear  this  contrast.  The  account  of  his 
ill-treatment  of  them  begins  with  his  refusing  his  sons  enough  to  live 
decently  upon,  while  pursuing  their  studies  at  Salamanca.  They  were 
obliged  to  return  to  their  miserable  home;  and  here  he  treated  them 

*  We  know  not  the  precise  value  of  this  coin,  which  does  not  appear  amon*  (he 
current  money  of  Italy:  nor  can  we  refer  to  books  for  it  at  this  moment.  But  there 
were  scwrfeof  gold ;  and  Ccnci's  fortune  was  accounted  enormous. 


THE  INDICATOR.  323. 

so  much  worse,  denying  them  even  common  food  and  clothing,  that  • 
they  applied  in  despair  to  the  Pope,  who  made  him  allow  them  a  sepa- 
rate provision,  with  Avhicli  they  retired  to  another  dwelling.  Pre- 
viously to  this  period,  Cenci  had  been  convicted  of  a  crime  twice  over, 
and  been  suffered  to  compound  for  it  with  the  Pope  in  two  several 
sums  of  a  hundred  thousand  scudi,  nearly  two  thirds  of  his  annual  in- 
come. Ilis  third  mortal  crime  now  took  place,  and  the  sons  by  this 
time  were  so  embittered"  by  the  constant  wretchedness  and  infamy  in 
which  he  kept  his  family,  that  they  entreated  the  Sovereign  Pontiff  to 
put  an  end  to  his  life  and  villainies  at  once.  The  Pope,  says  the  nar- 
rative, was  inclined  to  give  him  the  death  he  merited,  but  not  at  the, 
request  of  his  own  offspring,  and  for  the  third  time  he  allowed  him, to 
make  his  usual  composition  of  a  hundred  thousand  scudi.  ;- 

The  wretched  man  now  hated  his  children  worse  then  ever,  as  hC: 
had  some  better  reason  to  do.  But  not  content  with  cursing  his  sons,* 
he  visited  his  two  daughters  with  blows,  and  otherwise  so  trampled 
upon  their  feelings,  that  not  being  able  to  bear  his  treatment  longer, 
the  elder  one  applied  to  the  Pope,  begging  him  either  to  marry  her 
according  to  his  discretion,  or  to  put  her  in  a  nunnery.  The  Pope 
took  pity  on  the  unhappy  girl,  and  married  her  to  a  gentleman  of 
rank  named  Carlo  Gabrielli,  making  the  father  at  the  same  time  give 
her  a  suitable  dowry. 

This  event  so  gnawed  into  Cenci's  mind,  that  fearing  his  other 
daughter  W/Ould  follow  her  sister's  example  when  she  grew  old  enough,  ^ 
he  cast  in  his  diabolical  thoughts  how  he  might  prevent  it  most  assuredly, 
short  of  taking  away  her  life.  It  has  been  thought  by  some,  that  Mr. 
Shelley's  tragedy  must  be  an  exaggeration.  The  fact  is,  that  the  histo- 
rical narrative  is  much -worse.  The  details  of  his  conduct  fill  up  the 
poet's  outline  with  horrors  not  to  be  thought  of.  We  cannot  repeat 
what  this  mad  and  grey-headed  horror  (for  he  was  now  an  old  man) 
both  preached  and  practised  In  order  to  break  down  his  daughter's  vir- 
tues as  well  as  heart;  but  he  first  kept  her  locked  up  in  a  solitary 
apartment,  where  none  saw  her  but  himself,  and  where  he  brought  her 
stripes  as  well  as  food  :  and  his  last  action      ■    i 

About  this  period  the  terrible  old  man  received  news  of  the  death 
of  two  of  his  sons,  Rocco  and  Cristofero,  who  by  some  means  or.  other 
both  came  to  violent  ends.  He  welcomed  it  with  delight,  spying  that 
nothing  could  m'ake  him  happier  but  to  hear  the  same  thing  of  all  his, 
children ;  and  that  whenevet  the  last  should  die,  he  would  keep  open 
house  to  all  comers  for  joy.  To  shew  his  hatred  the  more  openly, 
he  would  not  give  the  least  pittance  towards  interring  them. 

Beatrice  was  now  beyond  dc  spair.  She  collected  her  thoughts,  and 
scat  off  a  letter  to  thq  Pope  which  the  author  of  the  Manuscript  de- 
scribes as  excellently  written,  Let  us  stop  here  a  moment,  to  speak 
more  particularly  of  the  extraordinary  girl.  '^  Beatrice,"  says  the 
close  of  the  Narrative,  ^^  was  of  a  make  rather  large  then  small.  Her 
complexion  was  fair.  She  had  two  dimpks  in  her  cheeks,  which 
added  to  the  bieauty  of  h^r  countenance  especially  when  she  smiled, 
and  gave  it  a  grace  that  enchanted  all  who,  saw  her.  Her  hair  was  , 
like  threads  of  gold;  and  because  it  was  very  long,  she  used  to  fasten 
it  up;  but  wh<,a  she  let  it  flow  loosely,  thi;;  wavy  splendour  of  it  was 


324  THE  INDICATOR. 

astonishing.  She  had  blue  eyes,  very  pleasing,  of  a  sprtghtlincss 
mixed  with  dignity :  and  in  addition  to  all  these  graces,  her  con- 
yersation,  as  well  as  all  that  she  did,  had  a  spirit  in  it,  and  a  sparkling 
polish  (un  brio  signorile)  which  made  every  one  in  love  with  her. 
Sie  was  then  under  twenty  years  of  age." 

The  letter  to  the  Pope  had  no  effect.  The  MS.  says  that  it  was 
found  in  the  ofifice  of  the  Secretary  of  Memorials  ;  but  supposes  that  it 
never  could  have  been  laid  before  his  Holiness.  The  reader  may  be 
allowed,  under  all  the  circumstances  to  suspect  otherwise.  Cenci  was 
still  rich  and  powerful ;  and  there  is  no  knowing  how  many  thousands 
of  scudi  he  may  have  had  to  pay  now. 

What  renders  the  conduct  of  the  Pope  the  more  suspicious,  is  that 
the  criminal  somehow  or  other  got  intelligence  of  the  application.  It 
made  him  more  furious  then  ever ;  and  besides  locking  up  his  daughter, 
he  incarcerated  in  the  same  manner,  and  apparently  in  the  same 
room^  his  wife  her  mother-in-law,  who  had  already  drunk  largely  of 
the  family  cup  of  bitterness.  Finding  every  avenue  of  relief  shut 
against  thc-m,  and  taught  by  the  old  man  himself,  as  well  as  their  own 
awful  thoughts,  to  forego  the  ties  of  relationship,  they  finally  resolved 
upon  dispatching  him. 

There  was  a  visitor  in  the  Cenci  Palace,  a  young  prelate  of  the  name 
of  Guerra,  who,  says  the  MS.  was  "  a  young  man  of  an  agreeable 
presence,  well-bred,  and  one  that  easily  accommodated  himself  to  any 
proposal,  good  or  bad."  He  was  well  acquainted  with  the  wickedness 
of  Cenci,  who  hated  him  for  the  attentions  he  paid  his  family ;  so  that 
he  used  to  come  there  at  such  times  only  as  he  knew  the  old  man  had 
gone  out.  How  he  gained  admittance  to  the  wife  and  daughter  in  the 
present  instance  does  not  appear ;  but  he  did ;  and  finding  their  mist- 
ries  augmented  at  every  visit,  his  interest  in  their  wretched  state  in« 
creased  in  proportion.  The  MS.  says  that  he  was  not  without  a  love 
for  Beatrice  •  but  it  does  not  appear  that  she  returned  it.  Be  this  as 
it  may,  having  gathered  their  intentions  about  the  old  man  from  some 
words  which  Beatrice  let  fall,  he  not  only  approved  them,  but  declared 
his  willingness  to  co-operate  in  the  catastrophe.  The  design  was  then 
communicated  to  Giacomo,  one  of  her  brothers,  who  instantly  fell  in 
with  it.  He  had  felt  his  fathers  ill  treatment  still  more  then  the  rest 
of  his  sons,  having  a  wife  and  children  whom  the  stipend  assigned  him 
hy  the  Pope  was  insufficient  to  support. 

Cenci  had  taken  for  the  summer  residence  of  himself  and  his  family  a 
castle  called  the  Rock  of  Petrella.  The  first  plan  of  the  conspirators 
was  to  hire  a  banditti  to  surprise  and  kill  him  in  his  way  thither.  The 
banditti  were  hired  accordingly,  but  the  notice  of  Cenci's  coming  was 
given  them  too  late,  and  he  got  into  the  Castle.  Neither  did  they  inrk 
in  the  thicket  about  the  place  to  any  purpose  ;  for  being  now  seventy 
years  of  age,  (and  probably  aware  of  the  state  of  the  neighbourhood, 
no  unusual  thing  in  those  times)  he  never  stirred  out  of  doors.  It  was 
therefore  determined  to  put  him  to  death  in  -the  castle.  For  this  pur- 
pose, they  hired  two  of  his  vassals,  named  Marzio  and  Olimpio,  who 
either  had  or  thought  they  had  cause  of  offence  with  him.  The  reward 
offered  for  the  deed  was  a  thousand  scudi,  one  third  to  be  paid  before- 
hand by  Monsignor  Guerra,  and  the  remainder  by  the  ladies  when  all 


THE  INPICATOil.  325 

Was  over.  The  assassins  were  introduced  into  the  Rock  on  the  8th  of 
September  1598  ;  "  but  as  it  happened  to  be  the  day  of  the  Nativity  of 
the  Blessed  Virgin,  Signora  Lucrezia  restrained  by  her  veneration  for 
that  solemn  anniversary,  put  oiF  the  execution,  with  the  consent  of 
her  daughter-in-law,  till  the  day  following."  On  the  evening  of  that 
day,  an  opiate  was  put  into  Cenci's  drink.  He  went  to  bed,  and  fell 
into  a  profound  sleep  ;  and  at  rhidnight,  Beatrice  herself  took  the 
assassins  into  his  chamber.  Having  told  them  what  to  do,  she  retired 
into  an  anti-room  where  her  mother  Avas  waiting.  In  a  little  while, 
the  assasins  returned,  and  said  that  their  compassioli  had  overcome 
them,  and  that  they  could  not  conquer  their  repugnance  to  kill  in 
cold  blood,  a  miserable  old  man  who  was  sleeping.  Beatrice  heard 
them  with  scorn  and  indignation.  "  If  you  are  afraid,"  said  she,  *'  to 
put  to  death  a  man  in  his  sleep,  I,  myself,  will  kill  my  father ;  but 
your  own  lives  shall  not  have  long  to  run."  The  men  intimidated^ at 
this,  returned  to  the  chamber.  In  a  little  time  tkey  came  back.  The 
deed  was  done.  The  assassins  received  the  rest  of  their  reward  ;  and 
to  Marzio  (for  what  reason  does  not  appear  :  probably  because  he  had 
been  the  least  backward)  Beatrice  gave  a  mantle  laced  with  gold.  The 
body  was  thrown  over  a  terrace  into  the  garden,  so  that  it  might  seem 
to  have  fallen  by  accideni,  while  the  old  man  was  moving  about  in  the 
night-time. 

The  women  next  day  affected  great  sorrow.  A  sumptuous  burial 
was  given  to  the  deceased  ;  and  the  -family,  after  a  little  stay,  returned 
to  Rome,  where  they  are  described  as  living  in  tranquillity  for  some 
time.  In  the  mean  while,  the  youngest,  son  of  Cenci  died,  so  that  there 
remained  but  t\\o,  Giacomo  and  Bernardo. 

The  Court  of  Naples  however,  whose  interference  at  this  point  of 
time  is  not  accounted  for,  unless  the  banditti,  who  were  from  that 
kingdom,  had  let  the  secret  transpire,  sent  a  commissioner 'to  make 
enquiries  into  the  nature  of  Cenci's  death.  The  usual  petty  circum- 
stancesof  suspicion  came  out,  and  were  laid  before  the  C/Ourt  of  Rome  ; 
yet  the  latter  took  no  further  steps  for  several  months.  Guerra,  who 
was  afraid  that  the  assassins  might  turn  evidence,  hired  others  to  get 
them  out  of  the  way  ;  but  Marzio  escaped.  He  got  imprisoned  how- 
ever at  Naples ;  and  having  made  an  ample  confession,  was  sent  to 
Rome.  Here  he  was  confronted  with  the  Cenci,  who  denied  all  that 
he  said,  particularly  Beatrice*  Her  extraordinary  firmness  and  pre» 
sence  of  mind  is  described  as  so  astonishing  the  man,  that  he  re- 
tracted every  thing  he  had  deposed  at  Naples  ;  and  rather  than  confess, 
chose  to  expire  under  the  torment. 

The  law  being  now  perplexed  how  to  procee:!,  the  Cenci  were  trans- 
ferred to  the  Castle,  where  they  lived  uninterruptedly  for  several 
months.  Unluckily,  one  of  the  bravoes  who  had  killed  Olimpio  was 
taken  up,  and  confessed  that  he  had  been  employed  by  Monsignor 
Guerra.  Timely  notice,  by  some  means  or  other,  was  given  to  the 
bishop,  and  he  escaped.  He  had  difficulty  in  doing  so,  because  he 
was  a  remarkable  looking  man  witha  fair  face  and  hair,  and  the  offi- 
cers were  on  the  al«'rt :  but  he  contrived  it.  He  changed  clothes  with 
a  coal-man,  smutted  his  face  and  shaved  his  head,  and  driving  two 
as^ies  before  him,  with  an  onion  and  a  piece  of  bread  in  his  hand,  passed 


326  THE  INDICATOR. 

ou(  of  the  clly  under  their  very  eyes.  He  encoaiiteretl  with  equal 
^ood  luck  the  officer^  who  were  on  the  look  out  in  the  neighbourhood; 
and  got  safe  into  another  country. 

The  flight  of  the  prelate  however,  together  with  the  confession  of 
Olimpio's  murderer,  brought  the  hand  of  the  law  heavily  upon  the 
Cenci,  They  were  now  put  to  the  torture.  The  courage  of  the  men 
"Was  prostrated  at  once  (''  cederono  vilmente,"  says  the  Manuscript), 
and  they  remained  convicted.  "  Signora  Lucrezia,  a  woman  of  fifty 
years  of  age  and  large  in  person,  not  being  able  to  resist  the  Torment 
of  the  Cord— (Here  the  Original  is  wanting) — »But  not  one  single  cri- 
minating word,"  continues  the  document,  "  either  by  fair  means  or 
foul,  by  threats  or  by  tortures,  could  be  got  out  of  the  lips  of  Beatrice. 
Her  vivacity  and  eloquence  confounded  even  the  judges."  One  of 
them,  Signer  Ulisse  Morcati,  represented  the  matter  to  the  Pope,  who 
suspected  him  of  having  been  overcome  by  the  sufferer's  beauty,  and 
appointed  another  in  his  room.  The  new  judge  ordered  a  fresh  torture 
to  be  applied,  called  the  Torture  of  the  Hair  ;  and  when  she  was  tied 
up  ready  for  it,  the  rest  of  the  family  were  brought  in  and  entreated 
her  to  confess.  At  first  she  refused.  "  You  would  all  die  then," 
said  she,  "  and  extinguish  our  honour  and  our  house?  This  ought 
not  to  be ;  but  sitsce  it  pleases  you,  so  be  it."  She  then  turned  to  the 
officers  tQ  let  her  loose,  and  asked  for  copies  of  fh*?  several  examina-« 
lions;  adding,  "  What  I  should  confess,  I  vyill  confess; — what  I 
should  approve,  I  will  approve: — what  I  should  deny,  I  will  deny." 
After  this  fashion,  says  the  MS.,  she  stood  convicted,  though  she  did 
not  confess. 

The  affair  rested  here  again  in  a  very  extraordinary  manner.  Pro* 
bably  (though  the  MS.  is  far  from  hinting  such  a  thing)  some  money 
matters  were  under  the  consideration  of  his  Holiness, — deep  questions 
as  to  the  difference  of  fines  and  confiscations.  The  parties  were  sepa- 
rated from  each  other  for  five  months.  They  were  then  allowed  to 
meet  one  day  at  dinner  ;  and  then  again  they  were  divided.  At  length, 
the  Holy,  Father,  after  having  seen  them  all  confronted,  and  examined 
the  confession,  sentenced  them  to  be  drawn  at  the  ct^rt'srtail  and 
beheaded. 

Great  interest  was  made,  by  princes  and  cardinals,  for  allowing  the 
criminals  a  legal  defence.  The  Pope,  who  had  shewn  himself  hostile 
from  the  first,  answered  these  requests  w  ith  severity,  and  asked, 
*'  what  defence  Cenci  had,  when  he  w  as  so  barbarously  murdered  iu 
his  sleep."  At  last  he  yielded  the  point,  and  gave  them  five-and- 
twenty  days  to  look  about  them.  The  most  eminent  advocates  in 
Rome  prepared  the  defence,  and  appeared  before  him  at  the  proper 
time  with  their  respective  papers.  The  first  that  spoke  was  impa- 
tiently interrupted  by  his  Holiness,  who  said  he  was  astonished  to  find 
in  Rome  children  so  barbarous  as  to  kill  their  father,  and  advocates  so 
bold  as  to  defend  such  a  villainy.  At  these  words  all  the  pounscl  were 
struck  dumb,  with  the  exception  of  the  Advocate  Tarrinacci,  who 
replied,  "  Holy  Father,  we  are  not  here  at  your  feet  to  defend  the  bru- 
tality of  the  deed  itself,  but  to  save  the  lives  of  such  as  may  be  inno- 
cent nevertheless,  if  your  Holiness  will  listen  to  us."  The  Pope,  upon 
this,  listened  patiently  for  four  hpurs.     Tarinuccis  defence  proceeded 


THE  INDICATOR.  327 

upna  Uif  only  possihle  ground,  and  appears  to  luive  contained  a 
strength  and  elnquenco  worthy  of  liis  spirit.  H«!  balanced  the  wrongs 
of  father  and  children  against  each  other.  The  sons  were  made  out  to 
be  the  least  concerned,  and  the  weight  of  the  murder  thrown  purposely 
upon  Beatrice,  who  had  been  so  atrociously  and  unspeakably  out- 
raged. The  Pope  sat  up  all  the  following  night  with  one  of  the  Car- 
dinals, considering  the  defence  point  by  point;  and  the  upshot  was, 
that  he  gave  the  criminals  a  hope  of  escaping  death,  and  ©rdered  that 
they  should  again  be  at  comparative  liberty. 

'  Unfortunately  for  this  new  and  unexpected  turn  in  their  affairs,  a 
nobleman  of  the  name  of  Paolo  Santa  Croce  assassinated,  at  this  point  of 
time,  his  own  mother,  for  not  bequeathing  him  her  inheritance.  This 
renewed  the  Pope's  bitterness  against  those  who  had  set  an  example  of 
parricide  ;  and  what  increased  it,  was  the  flight  of  Santa  Croce  who 
eluded  the  hands  of  justice.  He  sent  for  the  Governor  of  the  city, 
and  ordered  the  Cenci  to  be  publicly  executed  forthwith.  Many  of  the 
nobility  hastened  to  his  different  palaces  to  implore  at  least  a  private 
death  for  the  ladies ;  but  he  would  not  consent.  They  could  only 
obtain  the  pardon  of  Bernardo,  whom  the  MS.  calls  "  the  innocent 
Bernardo,"  and  whose  treatment  both  past  and  to  come  is  thus  ren- 
dered inexplicable. 

The  sentence  was  executed  next  day,  Saturday,  the  11th  of  May 
1599^  on  the  bridge  of  St.  Angelo.  Beatrice,  on  receiving  news  of  the' 
sentence,  felt,  for  the  first  time,  her  young  heart  fail  iier ;  and  burst 
into  bitter  and  wild  lamentations  on  the  necessity  of  dying.  *'  Oh 
God  1"  she  cried  out,  "  how  is  it  possible  to  die  so  suddenly  1"  Her 
mother-in-law,  whose  greater  age  and  perhaps  less  hope  of  escaping 
death,  had  softened  more  into  patience,  comforted  her  in  the  most 
affectionate  manner,  and  got  her  quietly  into  the  chapel.  Beatrice 
soon  recovered  herself,  and  behaved  with  a  gentle  firmness  propor- 
tionate to  the  wildness  of  her  first  grief.  She  made  a  will,  in  which 
she  left  fifteen  thousand  scudi  to  the  Confraternity  of  the  Sacred  Stigmas 
(the  Wounds  of  Christ),  and  the  whole  of  her  dowry  to  portion  fifty- 
female  orphans  in  marriage.  Lucrezia  left  a  will  in  the  same  spirit. 
They  then  recited  psalms,  litanies,  and  other  prayers;  and  at  eight 
o'clock  confessed  themselves,  heaid  mass,  and  received  the  sacrament. 
The  funeral  procession  called  for  them  on  it's  way,  having  already- 
taken  up  the  two  brothers,  to  the  younger  of  whom  the  Pope's  pardon 
was  announced,  informing  him  at  the  same  time  that  he  must  Avitness 
the  executions.  Beatrice  and  Lucrezia  were,  habited  like  nuns.  On 
their  way  to  the  scaffold  a  striking  thing  was  observed.  Lucrezla's 
handkerchief  was  continually  applied  to  wipe  away  her  tears;  Bea- 
trice's only  to  dry  up  the  moisture  on  her  forehead. 

When  the  procession  arrived  at  the  scaffold,  and  the  criminals  with- 
drew for  a  while  to  a  chapel,  the  poor  young  Bernardo,  condemned  to 
see  his  nearest  relations  executed  before  his  very  eyes,  fell  into  an 
agony  and  fainting  fit,  and  was  recovered  only  to  be  placed  opposite  the 
block.  The  first  wlfo  mounted  the  scaffold  was  Lucrezia.  In  pre- 
paring for  death,  the  drapery  was  discomposed  about  her  bosom,  which 
though  she  was  fifty  years  oftigo,  was  still  beautiful.  She  blushed  and 
cast  down  her  eyes,  but  raised  them  again  in  prayer  ;  and  then  adjust- 


328  THE  INDICATOR. 

inghersMf  to  the  block,  was  in  the  act  of  repeating  the  words,  in  the 
51st  psalm,  "  AGCOifling  to  the  muUitude  of  thy  tender  mercies," 
when  her  head  was  struck,  off.  While  tlie  blocis  was  being  prepared  for  * 
Beatrice,  a  place  on  which  some  of  the  spectators  stood  broke  down,  to 
their  great  hurt.  Beatrice  hearing  the  noise,  asked  if  her  mother  had 
died  well,  and  being  told  she  had,  kn'  it  down  before  a  crucifix,  and 
said,  "  Thanks  without  end  be  to  thee,  O  most  merciful  Redeemer^ 
for  having  given  in  the  good  death  of  my  mother  a  sure  proof  of  thy 
pity  towards  me."  TiVen  rising  on  her  feet,  "  all  courage  and  devo- 
tion," she  walked  towards  the  scaifold,  putting  up  prayers  as  she  went 
with  such  a  fervour  of  spirit,  that  all  who  heard  her  melted  into 
tears.  Having  ascended  the  scailbld,  she  accommodated  her  head  to 
the  block,  and  looking  up  once  more  towards  heaven,  prayed  thus:  — 
"  O  most  afi'ectioaate  Jesus,  who  abandoning  thy  divinity,  didst  be- 
come human  ;'  and  didst  will,  in  thy  love,  to  purge  from  it's  mortal  blot 
€veu  this  my  sinful  soul  with  thy  precious  blood ;  ah,  grant,  I  pray 
thee,  that  that  which  I  am  now  about  to  shed,  may  suffice  before  thy 
merciful  tribunal  to  do  away  my  great  misdeeds,  and  to  save  me  from 
some  part  of  the  prunishment  which  is  justly  my  due."  Having  said 
thus,  she  laid  down  her  head  again  on  the  block  and  began  the  130th 
Psalm — *'  Out  of  the  depths  have  I  cried  unto  thee,  O  Lord^.  Lord,  hear 
my  voice  ;  let  thine  ears" — At  these  words  her  head  was  severed  from 
her  body.  The  latter  underwent  such  a  violertt  convulsion,  thtft 
one  of  the  legs  is  said  to  have  ?i;l:mo^t  leaped  up.  At  sight  of 
his  sister's  death,  Bernardo  swooned  away  again,  and  did  not 
recover  his  senses  for  a  quarter  of  an  hour.  I.t  was  now 
the  turn,  of  the  last  sufferer,  Giacomo.  He  first  gave  a  stedfast 
look  at  Bernardo,  and  then  said  aloud,  that  if  he  went  into  a  state  of 
bliss  instead  of  punishment  he  would  pray  for  the  welfare  of  the  Pope, 
who  had  remitted  the  tormenting  part  of  his  just  sentence  and  saved 
his  brother's  life  ;  and  that  the  only  al!liction  he  had  in  his  lastmoments, 
vas  that  his  brother  was  compelled  to  look  upon  a  scene  so  dreadful  : 
'*  but,"  added  he,  "  as  it  has  so  pleased  tho'^,  O  my  God, .thy  will  be 
done."  He  then  knelt  down,  and  was  killed  with  a  blow  of  a  leaded 
club.  The  executions  being  over,  Bernardo  was  taken  back  to  prison, 
where  he  .fell  into  a  long  and  violent  fever.  He  was  kept  there  four 
months,"  when  tit  the  request  of  the  Venerable  Arch-Confraternity  of 
the  Most  Holy  Crucifix  of  St.  Marcello  he  obtained  the  favour  of  being 
set  at  liberty,  after  paying  to  the  Hospital  of  the  Most  Holy  Trinity 
of  the  Pilgrims  the  sum  of  25,000  scudi."  .lie  lived  to  have  a  son, 
named  Cristofero,  at  the  time  when  the' MS.  ^vas  written;  but  we 
know  not  how  long  the  family  stock  survived. 

Thus  ended  this  dreadful  tragedy  of  mistakes;  in  which  the  most 
privileged  were  made  fiends,  the  most  virtuous  murderers,  and  the 
customs  that  undertook  to  punish  them  were  the  cause  of  all. 


1  liy  Joseph  Appleyard,  No.  19,  <?alherine-slreet.  Strand. 
Price  2d,— Aiul  solil  aUo  l)y  A.  Guddon,  Importer  of  ymiffs,  No.  31,  Tavislotik- 
streel,  Covenl-gnrdeii.  Orders  received  at  the  above  places,  and  by  all  Book- 
tellers  and  Newsmen. 


THE    INDICATOR. 


There  he  arriving  round  about  doth  flie, 
And  takes  survey  with  busie  curious  eye : 
Now  this,  now  that,  he  tasteth  tenderly. 

Spenser. 


No.  XLIL— WEDNESDAY,  JULY  26th,    1820. 


THE  DESTRUCTION  OF  THE  CENCl  FAMILY,   AND  TRAGEDY  ON 
THAT  SUBJECT. 

(CONCLODED  FROIVI  LAST  WEEK.) 

'*  The  highest  moral  purpose  aimed  at  in  the  highest  species  of  the 
drama,  is  the  teaching  the  human  heart,  through,  its  sympathies  and 
antipathies,  the  knowledge  of  itself;  in  proportion  to  the  possession  of 
which  knowledge,  every  human  being  is  wise,  just,  sincere,  tolerant, 
and  kind.  If  dogmas  can  do  more,  it  is  well :  hut  a  drama  is  no  fit 
place  -for  the  enforcement  of  them.  Undoubtedly,  no  person  can  be 
truly  dishonoured  by  the  act  of  another ;  and  the  fit  return  to  make 
to  the  most  enormous  injuries  is  kindness  and  forbearance,  and  a  re- 
solution to  convert  the  injurer  from  his  dark  passions  by  love  and 
peace.  Revenge,  retaliation,  atonement,  are  pernicious  mistakes.  If 
Beatrice  had  thought  in  this  manner,  she  would  have  been  wiser  and 
better  ;  but  she  would  never  have  been  a  tragic  character :  the  few 
whom  such  an  exhibition  would  have  interested,  could  never  have 
been  sufficiently  interested  for  a  domestic  purpose,  from  the  want  of 
finding  sympathy  in  their  interest  among  the  mass  who  surround  them. 
It  is  in  the  restless  and  anatomizing  casuistry  with  which  men  seek  the. 
justification  of  Beatrice,  yet  feel  that  she  has  done  what  needs  justifi- 
cation ;  it  is  in  the  superstitious  horror  with  which  they  contemplate 
alike  her  wrongs  and  revenge  j  that  the  dramatic  character  of  what 
she  did  and  suffered,  consists." 

Thus  speaks  Mr.  Shelley,  in  the  preface  to  his  tragedy  of  the 
Cenci, — a  preface  beaatiful  for  the  majestic  sweetness  of  its  diction, 
and  still  more  lovely  for  the  sentiments  that  flow  forth  withit.  There 
is  no  living  author,  who  writes  a  preface  like  Mr.  Shelley.  The  in- 
tense interest  which  he  takes  in  his  subject,  the  consciousness  he  has 
.upon  him  nevertheless  of  the  interests  of  the  surrounding  world,  and 
the  natural  dignity  with  which  a  poet  and  philosopher,  sure  of  his  own 


330  THE  INDICATOR. 

motives^  presents  himself  to  the  chance  of  being  doubted  by  those 
whom  he  would  benefit,  casts  about  it  an  inexpressible  air  of  amiable-* 
ness  and  power.  To  be  able  to  read  such  a  preface,  and  differ  with  it, 
is  not  easy ;  but  to  be  a>ble  to,read  it,  and  theij  go  and  abuse  the 
author's  intentions,  shews  a  deplorable  habit  of  being  in  the  wrong. 

Mr.  Shelley  says  that  he  has  "  endeavoured  as  nearly  as  possible  to 
represent  the  characters  as  they  really  were,  and  has  sought  to  avoid 
the  error  of  making  theni  actuated  by  his  own  conceptions  of  right  or 
wrong,  false  or  true,  thus  under  a  thin  veil  converting  names  and  ac- 
tions of  the  sixteenth  century  into  cold  impersonations  of  his  own 
mind."  He  has  so.  He  has  only  added  so  much  poetry  and  imagina- 
tion as  is  requisite  to  refresh  the  spirit,  when  a  story  so  appalling  is 
told  at  such  length  as  to  become  a  book.  Accordingly,  such  of  our 
readers  9.S  are  acquainted  with  bur  last'  week's  narrative  of  the  Cenci 
and  not  with  Mr.  Shelley's  tragedy,  or  with  the  tragedy  and  not  with 
the  narrative,  will  find  in  either  account  that  they  are  well  acquainted 
with  the  characters  of  the  other.  It  is  the  same  with  the  incidents,, 
except  that  the  legal  proceedings  are  represented  as  briefer,  and  Bea- 
trice, is  visited  with'  a  temporary  madness  ;  but  this  the  author  had  a 
right  to  suppose,  in  probability  aswell  as  poetry.  The  curtain  falls 
on  the  parties  as  they  go  forth  to  execution, — 'an  ending  which  would 
hardly  have  done  well  on  the  stage,  though  for  different  reasons,  any 
more  than  the  naiture  of  the  main  story.  Biit  through  the  medium  of 
perusal,  it  has  a  very  good  as  well  as  novel  effect.  The  execution 
seems  a  supererogation,  compared  with  it.  The  patience,  that  has  fol- 
lowed upon  the  excess  of  the  sorrow,  has  put  the  tragedy  of  it  at  rest. 
*' The  bitterness  of  death  is  past,'!  as  Lord  Russell  said  when  he  had 
taken  leave  of  his  wife.  ■  , 

We  omitted  to  mention  last  week^  that  the  greatest  crime  of  which 
Cenci  had  been  guilty,  in  the  opinion  of  the  author  of  the  Manuscript, 
was  atheism.  The  reader  will  smile  to  see  so  foolish  and  depraved  a 
man  thus  put  on  a  level  with  Spinoza,  Gi6rdano  Bruno,  and  other  spi- 
rits of  undoubted  genius  and  integrity,  who  have  be^n  accused  of  the 
same  opinion.  But  the  sainiB  word  meanS  very  different  things  to  those 
who  look  into  it;  and  it  does  here,  though  the  author  of  the  MS. 
might  not  know  it.  The  atheism  of  men  like  Spinoza  is  nothing  but  a 
.vivid  sense  of  the  universe  about  them,  trying  to  distinguish  the  myM- 
tery  of  its  operations  from  the  ordinary,  and  as  they  think  pernicious 
anthjopomorphitism,  in  which  our  egotism  envelopes  it.  But  the 
•atheism  of  such  nven  as  Cenci  is  the- only  real  atheism  ;  that  is  to  say, 
it  is  the  only  real'disbielief  in  any  great  and  good  thing,  physical  or 
moral.  For  the  same  reason,  there  is  more  atheism,  to  all  intents  and 
purposes  of  virtuous  and  useful  belief,  in  some  bad  religions  however 
.devout,  than  in  some  supposed  absences  of  religion :  for  the  god  they 
ptopose  tff  themselves  does  not  rise  above  the  level  of  the  world  they 
•live  in,  except  in  power  like  a  Roman  Emperor ;  so  that  there  is 
nothing  to  them  really  outside  of  this  world,  at  last.  The  god,  for 
instance,  of  the  Mussulman,  is  nothing  but  a  sublimated  Grand  Sig- 
nior ;  and  so  much  the  worse,  as  m^n  generally  are,  in  proportion  to 


THE  INDICATOR.  331 

his  power.     One  act  of  kindness,  one  impulse  of  universal  benevo- 
lence, as  recommended  by.  the  true  spirit  of  Jesus,  is  more  grand  and 
godlike  than  ail  the  degrading  ideas  of  the  Supreme  Being,  which  fear 
and  slavery  have  tried  to  build  up  to  heaven.     It  is  a  greater  going  out 
of  ourselves ;  a  higher  and  wider  resemblance  to  the  all-embracing 
placidity  of  the  universe.     The  Catholic  author  of  the  MS.  says  that 
Cenci  was  an  atheist,  though  he  built  a  chapel  in  his  garden.     The 
chapel,  he  tells  us,  was  only  to  bury  his  family  in.     Mr,  Shelley  on 
the  other  hand,   can  suppose  Cenci  to  have  been  a  Catholic,  well 
enough,  considering  the  nature  and  tendency  of  the   Catholic  faith. 
In  fact,  he  might  have  been  either.     lie  might  equally  have  been  the 
man  he  was,  in  those  times,  and  under  all  the  circumstances  of  his 
power  and  impunity.     The  vices  of  his  atheism  and  the  vices  of  his 
superstition  would,  in  a  spirit  of  his  temper  and  education,  have  alike 
been  the  result  of  a  pernicious  system  of  religious  faith,  which  ren- 
dered the  Divine  Being  gross  enough  to  be  disbelieved  by  any  one,  and 
imitated  and  bribed  by  the  wicked'.    Neither  his  scepticism  nor  his  devo- 
tion would  have  run  into  charity.     He  wanted  knowledge  to  make  the 
first  do  so,  and  temper  and  privation  to  make  the  second.     But  per- 
haps the  most  likely  thing  is,  that  he  thought  as  little  about  religion  as 
most  men  of  the  world  do  at  all  times  ; — that  he  despised  and  availed 
himself  of  it  in  the  mercenary  person  of  the  Pope,  scarcely  thought  of 
it  but  at  such  times,  and  would  only  have  believed  in  it  out  of  fear  at 
his  last  hour.     Be  this  however  as  it  might,  still  the  habitual  instinct 
of  his  conduct  is  justly  traceable  to  the  prevailing  feeling  respecting 
religion,  especially  as  it  appears  that  he  "  established  masses  for  the 
peace  of  his  soul."     Mr.  Shelley,  in  a  striking  part  of  his  preface,  in- 
forms us  that  even  In  our  own  times  "  religion  co-exists,  as  it  were,  in 
the  mind  of  an  Italian  Catholic,  with  a  faith  in  that,  of  which  all  men 
have  the  most  certain  knowledge.     It  is  adoration,  faith,  submission, 
penitence,  blind  admiration  ;  not  a  rule  for  jjioral  conduct.     It  has  no 
necessary  connexion  with  any  one  virtue.     The  most  atrocious  villain 
may  be   rigidly  devout ;  and  without  any  shock  to  established  faith,   - 
coi^ess  himself  to  be  so.     Religion  pervades  intensely  the  whole  frame 
of  society,  and  is  according  to  the  temper  of  the  mind  which  it  inha- 
bits, a  passion,  a  persuasion,  an  excuse;  never  a  check."     We  shall 
only  add  to  this,  that  such  religions  in  furnishing  men  with  excuse  and 
absolution,  do  but  behave  with  something  like  decent  kindness;  for 
they  are  bound  to  do  what  they  can  for  the  vices  they  produce.     And 
we  may  say  it  with  gravity  too.     Forgiveness  will  make  its  way  some- 
how every  where,  and  it  is  lucky  that  it  will  do  so.     But  it  would  be 
luckier,  if  systems  made  less  to  forgive. 

The  character  of  Beatrice  is  admirably  managed  by  our  author. 
She  is  what  the  MS.  describes  her,  with  the  addition  of  all  the  living 
grace  and  presence  which  the  re-creativeness  of  poetry  can  give  her. 
We  see  the  maddened  loveliness  of  her  nature  Walking  among  us,  and 
make  way  with  an  aweful  sympathy.  It  is  thought  by  some,  that  she 
ought  not  to  deny  her  guilt  as  she  does ; — that  she  ought  not,  at  any 
rate,  to  deny  the  deed,  whatever  she  may  think  of  the  guilt.    But  thiis^ 


332  THE  INDICATOR. 

in  our  opinion,  i«  one  of  the  author's  happiest  subtleties.     She  is  na- 
turally so  abhorrent  from  guilt, — she  feels  it  to  have  been  so  impos- 
sible a  thing  to  have  killed  a  father,  truly  so  called,  that  what  with 
her  horror  of  the  deed  and  of  the  infamy  attending  it,  she  would 
almost  persuade  herself  as  well  as  others,  that  no  such  thing  had  ac- 
tually taken  place, — that  it  was  a  notion,  a  horrid  dream,  a  thing  to  be 
gratuitously  cancelled  from  people's  minds,  a  necessity  which   they 
w^ere  all  to  agree  had  existed  but  was  not  to  be  spoken  of,  a  crime 
which  to  punish  was  to  proclaim  and  make  real, — any  thing,  in  short, 
but  that  a  daughter  had  killed  her  father.     It  is  a  lie  told,  as  it  were, 
for  the  sake  of  nature,  to  save  it  the  shame  of  a  greater  contradiction. 
If  any  feeling  less  great  and  spiritual,  any  dread  of  a  pettier  pain, 
appears  at.  last  to  be  suffered  by  the  author  to  mingle  with  it,  a  little 
common  frailty  and  inconsistency  only  renders  the  character  more 
human,  and  may  be  alloA^'ed  a  young  creature  about  to  be  cutoff  iti 
the  bloom  of  life,  who  shews  such  an  agonized  wish  that  virtue  should 
survive  guilt  and  despair.     She  does  not  sacrifice  the  man  who  is  put 
to  the  torture.     He  was  apprehended  without  her  being  able  to  help 
it,  would  have  committed  her  by  his  confession,  and  would  have  died 
at  all  events.     She  only  reproaches  him  for  including  a  daughter  in 
the  confession  of  his  guilt;  and  the  man,  be  it  observed,  appears  to 
"have  had  a  light  let  into  his  mind  to  this  effect,  for  her  behaviour  made 
him  retract  his  accusations,  and  filled  him  so  with  a  pity  above  hia 
self-interest,  that  he  chose  rather  to  die  in  torture  than  repeat  them.    It 
is  a  remarkable  instance  of  the  respect  vvith  which  Beatrice  was  regarded 
i  a  Rome,  in  spite  of  the  catastrophe  into  which  she  had  been  mad- 
dened, that  Guido  painted  her  portrait  from  the  life,  while  she  was  in 
prison.     He  could  not  have  done  this,  as  a  common  artist  might  take 
the  likeness  of  a  common  criminal,  to  satisfy  Tulgar  curiosity.     Her 
family  was  of  too  great  rank  and  importance,  a^nd  retained  them  too 
much  in  its  reverses.     He  must  hav^  waited  on  her  by  permission,  and 
accompanied  the  sitting  with  all  those  attentions  which  artists  on  such 
occasions  are  accustomed  to  pay  to  the  great  and  beautiful.     Perhaps 
he  was  intimate  with  her,  for  he  was  a  painter  in  great  request.  ^  In 
order  to  complete  our  accounts  respecting  her,  as  well  as  to  indulge 
Qurselves  in  copying  out  a  beautiful  piece  of  writing,  we  will  give 
Mr.  Shelley's  description  of  this  portrait,  and  masterly  summary  of  her 
character.     "  The  portrait  of  Beatrice  at  the  Colonna  Palace  is  most 
admirable  as  a  work  of  art:  it  was  taken  by  Guido  during  her  con- 
finement in  prison.     But  it  is  most  interesting  as  a  just  representation 
of  one  of  the   loveliest  specimens  of  the  workmanship   of  Nature. 
There  is  a  fixed  and  pale  composure  upon  the  features:  she  seems  sad 
and  stricken  down  in  spirit,  yet  the  despair  thus  expressed  is  lightened 
by  the  patience  of  gentleness.     Her  head  is  bound  with  folds  of  white 
drapery,  from  which  the  yellow  strings  of  her  golden  hair  escape,  and 
fall  about  her  neck.     The  moulding  of  her  face  is  exquisitely  delicate  ; 
the  eyebrows  are  distinct  and  arched  :  the  lips  have  that  permanent 
meaning  of  imagination  and  sensibility,  which  sufferinghas  not  repressed, 
and  which  it  s*ems  as  if  death  scarcely  could  extinguish,     Her  fore- 


tHE  INDICATOR.  333 

head  is  large  and  clear ;  her  eyes,  which  we  are  told  were  remarkable 
for  their  vivacity,  are  swollen  with  weeping  and  lustreless,  but  beauti- 
fully tender  and  serene.  In  the  whole  mien  there  is  a  simplicity  and 
dignity,  which  united  with  her  exquisite  loveliness  and  deep  sorrow, 
are  inexpressibly  pathetic.  Beatrice  Cencl  appears  to  have  been  one 
of  those  rare  persons,  in  whom  energy  and  gentleness  dwell  together 
without  destroying  one  another:  her  nature  was  simple  and  profound. 
The  crimes  and  miseries  in  which  she  was  an  actor  and  a  sufferer,  are 
as  the  mask  and  the  mantle,  in  which  circumstances  clothed  her  from 
her  impersonation  on  the  scene  of  the  world." 

The  beauties  of  a  dramatic  poem,  of  all  others,  are  best  appreciated 
by  a  survey  of  the  whole  work  itself,  and  of  the  manner  in  which  it  is 
composed  and  hangs  together.  We  shall  content  ourselves  therefore, 
in  this  place,  with  pointing  out  some  detached  beauties  ;  and  we  will 
begin,  as  in  the  giounds  of  an  old  castle,  with  an  account  of  a  rocky 
chasm  on  the  road  to  Petrella. 

Ltfcrezia.  To-morrow  before  dawn 
Cenci  will  take  us  to  tliat  lonely  rock, 
Petrella,  in  the  Apulian«\pennine9. 
If  fie  arrive  there 

Beatrice.  He  must  not  arrive. 

Orsino.  Will  it  be  dark  before  you  reach  the  tower? 

I.ncr.  The  sun  will  scarce  be  set. 

Beatr.  But  I  remember 
Two  miles  on  this  side  of  the  fort,  the  road 
Crosses  a  deep  ravine;  'lis  rouijh  and  narrow. 
And  winds  with  short  turns  down  the  precipice, 
.    And  in  its  depth  there  is  a  mighty  rock, 
Which  has,  from  unimaginable  years. 
Sustained  itself  with  terror  and  with  toil 
Over  a  jjulpli,  and  with  the  apony 
With  wliich  it  clinfjB,  seems  slowly  coming,dowii; 
Even  as  a  wretched  sonl,  hour  after  hour. 
Clings  to  tiie  mass  of  life;  yet  clinging,  leans; 
And  Iraning,  makes  more  dark  the  dread  abyss 
In  which  it  fears  to  fall:  jfeneath  this  crag  icf '••  '^ 

Huge  as  despair,  as  if  iiyweariness. 
The  melancholy  mnuntuin  yawns: — below. 
You  hear  but  see  not  an  impetuous  torrent 
Rfiging  aoiong  the  caverns,  and  a  bridge 
Crosses  the  chasm,  and  high  above  therf"  grow. 
With  intersecting  trunks,  from  crag  to  crag. 
Cedars,  and  yews,  and  pines,  whose  tangled  hair 
li*  malted  in  one  solid  roof  of  shade 
Hy  the  dark  ivy's  twine.     At  noon-day  ihere 
'Tis  twilight,  and  at  sunset  blackest  night. 

With  what  a  generous  and  dignified  sincerity  does  Beatrice  shew  at 
once  her  own  character  and  that  of  the  prelate  her  lover. 

As  I  have  said,  speak  not  to  me  of  love. 

Had  you  a  dispensation,  I  have  not: 

Nor  will  I  leave  this  home  of  misery. 

Whilst  my  poor  Bernard,  and  that  gentle  lady 

To  whom  1  owe  life  and  these  virtuous  thoughts, 

Must  suffer  what  I  still  have  strength  to  share. 

Alas,  Orsino!  All  the  love  that  once 


334  THE  INDICATOR. 

I  felt  for  you,  is  turned  Jo  bitter-pain. 
Our's  was  a  youthful  contract,  which  you  first 
Broive,  by  assuming  vows  no  Pope  will  loose. 
And  yet  I  love  you  still,  but  holily,  . 
Even  as  a  sister  or  a  spirit  might; 
And  so  I  swear  a  cold  fidelity. 
.'      And  it  is  well  perhaps  we  should  not  marry. 
You  hav9  a  sly,  equivocating  vein, 
That  suits  me  not. 

The  following  is  one  of  the  gravest  and  grandest  lines  we  ever  read. 
It  is  the  sum  total  of  completeness.  Orsino  says,  while  he  is  meditat- 
ing Cenci's  murder,  and  its  consequences, 

1  see,  as  from  a  tower,  the  end  of  all. 

The  terrible  imaginations  which  Beatrice  pours  forth  during  her 
frenzy,  are  only  to  be  read  in  connexion  with  the  outrage  that  pro- 
duced them.  Yet  take  the  following,  where  the  excess  of  the  agony 
is  softened  to  us  by  the  wild  and  striking  excuse  which  it  brings  for 
the  guilt.  ; 

What  hideous  thought  was  that  I  bad  even  now  ? 
'Tis  gone;  and  yet  its  burthen  remains  still 
O'er  these  dull  eyes — upon  this  weary  heart. 
O,  world  I  O,  life  I  O,  day  1  O,  misery  ! 

Lucr.  What  ails  thee,  my  poor  child  ?  She  answers  not ; 
Her  spirit  apprehends  the  sense  of  pain, 
Btit  not  its  cause:  suffering  has  dried  away 
The  source  from  which  it  sprung. 

Beatr.  (franticly).  Like  Parricide, 
Misery  has  killed  Us  father. 

When  she  recovers,  she  *'  approaches  solemnly"  Orsino,  who  comes 
in,  and  announces  to  him,  with  ai\  aweful  obscurity,  the  wrsng  she 
has  endured.     Observe  the  last  line. 

Welcome,  friend  } 
I  have  to  tell  you,  that  since  last  we  met, 
1  have  endured  a  wrong  so  great  and  strange 
That  neither  life  nor  death  can  give  me  rest. 
Ask  me  not  what  it  is,  for  there  are  deeds 
Which  have  no  form,  sufferings  which  have  no  tongue. 

Ors.  And  what  is  he  that  has  thus  injured  you  ? 

Beatr.  Tiie  man  they  call  my  father)  a  dread  namel. 

The  line  of  exclamations  in  the  previous  extract  is  in  the  taste  of  the 
Greek  dramatists;  from  whom  Mr.  Shelley,  who  is  a  scholar,  has 
caught  also  his  happy  feeling  for  compounds,  such  as  ^^  the  all-corn-  . 
municating  air,''  the  "  mercy-winged  lightning,"  "  sin-chastising 
dreams,"  "  wind-walking  pestilence,"  the  *'  palace-walking  devil, 
gold,''  &c.  Gold,  in  another  place,  is  finely  c?iUed  "  the  old  mau'» 
sword." 

Cenci's  angry  description  of  the  glare  of  day  is  very  striking. 

The  all-beholding  suu  yet  sJiines  :  I  hear 

A  busy  stir  of  men  about  the  streets; 

1  see  the  bright  sky  through  the  window  panes: 

It  i^^  a  garish,  broiid,  and  peering  day  ;  ' 

Loud,  light,  suspicit/us,  full  of  eyes  and  ear». 


THE  INDICA^'OR.  33d 

And  ewry  lidle  corner,  nook,  and  hole 
,  Is  p<>nelrated  with  the  insolent  light. 
Come  darkness ! 

The  following  is  edifying  :— 

The  eldest  son  of  a  rich  nobleman  ' 

ts  lieir  to  all  his  incapacities; 

He  ha«  wide  wants,  and  narrow  powers. 

We  are  awure  of  no  passage  in  the  modern  or  ancient  drama,  lit 
ifrhich  the  eifect  of  bodily  torture  Is  expressed  in  a  more  brief,  com- 
prehensive, imaginative  manner,  than  in  an  observation  made  by  a  jildge 
to  one  of  the  assasins.  The  pleasure  belonging  to  the  original  image 
renders  it  intensely  painful. 

Marzio.-^y  God!  I  did  not  kill  him  ;  I  know  notluog  :  i 

Oiimpio  sold  the  robe  (o  me,  from  which 
You  Would  infer  my  guilt. 

2d  Judge.  Away  with  him! 

\st  Judge.  Dare  you,  wiili  lips  yet  white  from  the  rack's  kiss. 
Speak  false  J 

Beatrice's  thoughts  upon  what  she  might  and  might  not  find  in  the 
©ther  world  are  very  tetrible ;  but  we  prefer  concluding  tout  extracts 
with  the  close  of  the  play,  which  is  deliciously  patient  and  affectionate. 
How  triumphant  is  the  gentleness  of  virtue  in  its  most  mortal  defeats ! 

Enter  Camillo  tOtd  Gnards. 

Bernard.  They  come !  Let  me 
Kiss  those  warm  lip?^  before  their  crimson  leaves 
Are  blighted — wl»ite^<:oldi.     Say  farewell,  before  * 

Death  chokes  that  gentle  voice  I  0»  let  me  hear 
,  You  speak  1 

litatr.  Farewell,  my  tender  brother.     Think 
Of  our  sad  fate  with  ^ntleness,  as  now  : 
And  let  mild,  pitying  thoughts  lighten  for  thee  ^ 

Thy  sorrow's  load.     Err  not  in  harsh  despair. 
But  tears  and  patience.     One  thing  more,  my  child; 
For  thine  own  sake,  be  constant  to  the  love 
Thou  bearest  us  (  and  to  the  faith  that  I, 
Tho'  wrnpt  in  a  strange  cloud  of  crime  and  shame, 
Lived  ever  holy  and  unstained.     And  tho' 
fll  tongues  shall  wound  me,  and  our  common  name 
Be  as  a  mark  stamped  on  thine  innocent  brow 
For  men  to  point  at  as  they  pass,  do  thou 
Forbear,  and  never  think  a  thouglit  unkind 
Of  those,  who  perhaps  love  thee  in  their  graves. 
So  mayest  thou  die  as  I  do  ;  fear  and  pain 
Being  subdued.     Farewell!  Farewell!  Farewell! 

Sern.  I  cannot  say,  farewell! 

Cam.  O,  lady  Beatrice  ! 

Beatn  Give  yourself  no  unnecessary  pain, 
My  dear  Lord  Cardinal.     Here,  mother,  tie 
My  girdle  for  me,  and  bind  up  this  hair 
In  any  simple  knot;  aye,  that  does  well. 
And  yours,  I  see,  is  coming  down.     How  often    ■ 

Have  we  done  this  for  one  another  :  now  ' 

We  shall  not  do  it  any  more.     My  Lord, 
We  are  quite  ready.     Well,  'tis  very  well. 

Exauti, 


336  THE  INDICATOR. 

Mr.  Shelley,  In  this  work,  reminJs  us  of  some  of  the  most  stre- 
nuous aud  daring  of  our  old  dramatists,  not  by  any  means  as  an  imitator j 
though  he  has  studied  them,  but  as  a  bold,  elemental  imagination,  and 
a  framer  of  "  mighty  lines."  He  possesses  also  however,  what  those 
to  -whom  we  more  particularly  allude  did  not  possess,  great  sweetness 
of  nature,  and  enthusiasm  for  good ;  and  his  style  is,  as  it  ought  to 
be,  the  offspring  of  this  high  mixture.  It  disproves  the  adage  of  the 
Latin  poet.  Majesty  and  Love  do  sit  on  one  throne  in  the  lofty  build- 
ings of  his  poetry  ;  and  they  will  be  found  there,  at  a  late  aud  we 
trust  a  happier  day,  on  a  seat  immortal  as  themselves. 

[An  accident  prevents  us  from  filling  up  this  space  with  something 
which  would  have  worthily  filled  it.] 


Prini«'d  9nd  publislipd  t>y  Joseph  Applbtard,  No.  19,  Ca(1ierine->ttreet,  Strand. 
Prrce  2d. — And  sold  also  by  A.  Gliddon,  Importer  of  SnuflEii,  No,  31,  Tavistork- 
strret,  Covent-fjarden.  Orders  received  at  the  above  places,  and  by  all  Book- 
sellers and  Newsmen. 


THE    INDICATOR. 

There  lie  arriving  round  about  doth  flie,  ■ 
And  takes  survey  with  busie  curious  ^ve : 
Now  this,  how  that,  he  tastetk  teuderiy. 


No.  XLIII.— WEDNESDAY,  AUGUST  2d,   1820. 


THE  STORIES  OF*  LAMIA,  THE  POT  OF  BASIL,  THE  EVE  "OF 
ST.  AGNES,  &c.  AS  TOLD, BY  MR.  KEATS. 

In  laying  before  our  readers  an  account  of  another  new  publication, 
it  is  fortunate  that  the  nature  of  the  work  again  falls  in  with  the  cha- 
racter of  our  miscellany  ;  part  of  the  object  of  which  is  to  relate  the 
stories  of  old  times.  We  shall  therefore  abridge  into  prose  the  stories 
which  Mr.  Keats  has  told  in  poetry,  only  making  up  for  it,  as  we  go, 
by  cutting  some  of  the  richest  passages  out  of  his  verse,  and  fitting  them 
in  to  our  plainer  narrative.  They  are  such  as  would,  leaven  a  much 
greater  lump.  Their  drops  are  rich  and  vital,  the  essence  of  a  heap 
of  fertile  thoughts. 

The  first  story,  entitled  Lamia,  was  suggested  to  our  autlior  by  a 
passage  in  Burton's  Anatomy  of  IVJelaucholy,  which  he  has  extracted 
at  the  end  of  its  We  will  extract  it  here,  at  the  beginning,  that  the 
readers  may  see  how  he  has  enriched  it.  Burton's  relation  is  itself  an 
improvement  on  the  account  in  Philostratus.  T]ie  old  book-fighter 
with  melancholy  thoughts  is  speaking  of  the  seductions  of  phantas- 
mata. 

*'  Philostratus,  in  his  fourth  book  *  De  Vita  Apollonii,*  hath  a  me- 
morable instance  in  this  kind,  which  I  may  not  omit,  of  one.Menippus 
Lycius,  a  young  man  , twenty-five  years  of  age,  that  going  betwixt 
Cenchreas  and  Corinth,  met  such  a  phantasm  in  the  habit  of  a  fair 
gentlewoman,  which  taking  him  by  the  hand,  carried  him  home  to  her 
house,  in  the  suburbs  of  Corinth,  and  told  him  she  Avas  a  Phtenician  by 
birth,  and  if  he  would  tarry  with  her,  he  should  hear  her  sing  and 
play,  and  dtink  such  wine  as  never  any  drank,  and  no  man  should 
molest  him  ;.^but  she,  being  fair  and  lovely,  would  live  and  die  with 
him.  that;  vcas  fair  and  lovely,  to  behold.  The  young  man,  a  philoso- 
pher, otherwise  staid  and  discreet,  able  to  moderate  his  passions, 
though  not  this  of  love,  tarried  with  her  awhile  to  his  great  content, 
and  at  last  married  her,  to  whose  wedding,  amongst  other  guests,  came 
ApoHouius;  who,  by  son;e  probable  conjectures,  found  her  out  to  be 
a  serpent,  a  lamia;  and  that  all  her  furniture  was,  like  Tantalus'  gold, 
described  by  Homer,  no  substance  but  mere  illusions.  When  she  saw 
herself  descried,  she  wept,  and  desired  Apollonius  to  be  silent,  but  he 
would  not  be  moved,  and  therefore  she,  plate,  house,  and  all  that  was 


338  THE  INDICATOR. 

ill  it,  vanished  in  an  instant :  many  thousands  took  notice  of  this  fact, 
for  it  was  done  in  the  midst  of  Greece." — Anat.  of  Mel.  Part  3, 

Sect: 2.  '  ^f  V-       ■  ^"  "  ■"        '  '      /  :  .'  ■-: 

According  to  our  poet,  Mercury  had  come  down  from  heaven,  on« 
day,  in  order  to  make  love  to  a  nymph,  famous  for  her  beauty,  lie 
could  not  find  her;  and  he  was  halting  among  the  woods  uneasily, 
when  he  heard  a  lanely  voice,  complainings.     It  was 

A  mournful  voice, 
Such  as  once  hearif,  Tii  gentle  lienri,  destroys 
All  pajn  but  pity,:  tlius  t lie  lone  voice  spake. 
'*'Wl)en  from  ttm  writhed -tomb  airali  I  awaire!  -  -l 

*' When  move  ill  a  sweet  bpd.y. fit  for  life, 
*•  And  love,  and  pleasure,  and  (he  ru^dy  strife 
"Of  hearts  and  lips !     Ah,  miserable  me !" 

Mercury  went  looking  aboiit  among  the  trefes  and  grass,      .  - 

Until  he  found  a  palpitating  snake, 

Bright^andeirque-couchaiit  in  a  dusky  brake.  .      .      «   . 

The  admiration,  pity,  and  horror,  to  be  excited  by  humanity  in  a  bruti? 
shape,  were  never  perhaps  called  upon  by  a  greater  mixture  of  beauty 
' a t\d  deformity  than  in  the  picture  of  this  creature.  Our  pity  and 
suspicions  are  begged  by  the  first  Word:  the  profuse  and  vital  beau- 
ties with  which  she  is  covered  seem  proportioned  to  her  misiery  and 
natural  rights ;  and  lest  we  shduld  lose  sight  of  them  in  this  gorgeoua- 
iiess,  the  "  woman's  mouth"  fills  us  at  once  with  shtfddering  and  com- 
passion, 

Slie  was  a  gordian  shape  of  dazzling  hue, 

Vermillion-spotted,  golden,  green,  and  blue} 

Striped  like  a  ^ebra,  freckled  like  a  pa rd. 

Eyed  like  a  peacock,  and  all  ci'imsoti-barr'di  * 

And  full  of  silver  moons,  that,  as  she  breathed, 

Dissolv'd  or  brighter  shone,  or  interwreaihed 

Their  lustries  with  the  gloomier  ta.pestries^— 

So  rainbow-sided,  touch'd' with  miseries. 

She  seem'd  at  once,  some  penanced  lady  elf, 

Some  dsemon's  mistress,  or  the  damon's  self.      ' 

Upon  her  crest  she  wore  a  wannish  fire 

Sprinkled  with  stars,  like  Ariadne's  tiar: 

Her  head  was  serpent,  but  ah,  bitter-sweet ! 

She  had  a^ woman's  month  with  all  it's  pearls  complete: 

And  for  her  eyes  :  what  could  such  eyes  do  there. 

But  weep,  and  weep,  that  ihey  were  born  So  fair  ? 

As  Proserpine  still  weeps  for  lier  Sicilian  air. 

The  serpent  tells  Mercury  that  she  knows  [upon  what  quest  he  is 
bound,  and  asks  him  if  he  has  succeeded.  The  god,  with  the  usual 
eagerness  of  his  species  to  have  his  %vill,  falls  into  the  trap  ;  and  tella 
her  that  he  will  put  her  in  possession  of  any  wish  she  may  have  at 
heart,  provided  she  can  tell  him  where  to  find  his  nymph.  As  eagerly, 
She  accepts  his  promise,  making  him  ratify  it  by  an  oath,  which-  he  firat 
pronounces  with  an  earnest  lightness,  and  afterwards  with  a  deeper 
solemnity.  ; '' 

Then  once  again  flie  charmed  God  begari 
An  oath,  and  through  the  serpent's  ears  it  ran 
Warm,  treamlcug,  devout,  psallerian. 


T9E  INDICATOR,  389 

1  ire  cf eatrire  tells  hfoi  that  it- was  she  who  had  rendered  the  nympli 
itovisible,  in  order  to  preserve  her  from  the  iniportunities  of  the  ruder 
weod  gods.  She  adds,  that  she  was  a  woman  herself,  that  she  loves  a 
youth  of  Gorinth  and  wishes  tO  be  a  woman  again,  and  that  if  he  will 
let  her  breathe  upOn  his  eyes,  he  shall  see  his  invisible  beauty.  The 
god  sees,  loves,  and  prevails.  The  serpent  undergoes  a  fierce  and 
convulsive  change,  and  flies  towards  Corinth, 

A  full-born  beauty,  new  and  exquisite. 
jLamia,  whose  liability  to  painful  metamorphosis  was  relieved  by  a 
dttpernatural  imagination,  had  been  attracted  by  the  beauty  of  Lycius, 
while  pitching  her  mind  among  the  enjoyments  of  Corinth.  By  the 
same  process,  she  knew  that  he  was  to  pass  along,  that  evening,  on  the 
road  from  the  sea-side  to  Corinth  ;  and  there  accordingly  she  contrives 
to  have  an  interview,  Avhich  ends  in  his  being  smitten  with  love,  and 
conducting  her  to  her  pretended  home  in  that  city.  She  represents 
herself  as  a  rich  orphan,  living  "  but  half-retired,"  and  affects  to  won- 
der that  he  nev6r  saw  her  before.  As  they  enter  Corinth,  they  pass 
the  philosopher  Apollonius,  who  is  Lycius's  tutor,  and  from  whom  he 
instinctively  conceals  his  face.  Lamia's  hand  shudders  in, that  of  her 
lover;  but  she  says  she  is  only  wearied;  and  at  the  same  moment, 
they  stop  at  the  entrance  of  a  magnificent  house  :-^ 

A  pillarM  porch,  with  lofty  portal  door,  . 
Where  hung  a  silver  lamp,  wliose  phosphor  glow 
Reflected  iu  the  slabbed  steps  below, 
Mild  as  a  star  in  water. 

Here  they  lived  for  some  time,  undisturbed  by  the  world,  in  all  the 
delight  of  a  mutual  passion.  The  house  remained  invisible  to  all  eyes, 
but  those  of  Lycius.  There  were  a  few  Persian  miites,  "  seen  that 
year  about  the  markets;"  and  nobody  knew  whence  they  came  ;  but 
the  most  inquisitive  were  baffled  in  endeavouring  to  track  them  to  some 
place  of  aJjodoi 

But  all  this  while,  a  god  was  every  night  In  the  house,  taking  offence. 
Every  night 

Wijlh  a  terrific  g.lare,     , 
Love,  jealous  grown  of  so  complete  a  pair, 
•  .      ■  Hovered  an4  buzzed  his  wings  with  fearful  roar 

Abov«  the  lintel  of  their  chamber  door. 
And  down  the  passage  cast  a  glow  upon  the  floor. 

Lycius,  to  the  great  distress  of  his  mistregs,  who  saw  in  his  vanity  a 
great  danger,  persuaded  her  to  have  a  public  wedding- feast.  She  only 
begged  him  not  to  iitvite  Apollonius ;  and  then,  resolving  to  dress  up 
her  bridals  with  a  $ort  of  despaiiing  magnificence,  equ£!Ll  to  her  appre- 
hensions of  danger,  she  worked  a  fairy  architecture  in  secret,  served 
only  with  the  noise  of  wings  and  a  restless  sound  of  rausic-r? 

A  haunting  musie,  sole  perhaps  and  lone 
^Hpportress  of  thft  faery-roof,  made  rhoan 
Throughout,  as  fearful  the  vyliole  charm  might  fade. 

This  is  the  very  quintessence  of  the  romantic.  The  walls  of  the  long 
vaulted  room  were  covered  with  palms  and  plantain-trees  imifated  in 
pedar-wood,  and   rareling  over  head  in  the  middle  of  the  ceiling; 


340  THE  INDICATOR.' 

between  the  stems  were  jasper  pannels,  from  which  "  there  bArst  forth 
creeping  imager^  of  slighter  trees ;"  and  before  each  of  these  *' lucid 
pannels 

■Purtvtii^  Btoyd 
Acenseit'filledtyilh  myrrh  an4  spited  wOQd«-       /. 
Whose  slender  feet  wiilfi-swerv'tl  upon  tlie  soft   , 
WooUwoofed  carpets;  fifty  vvrentlis  oF smoke 
From  fifty  centers  their  lijrhtYbyagdtobk 

To  the  high  roof,  still  mimick'd  as  ihey  rose  ^ 

Along  the  mirror'd  walls  by  twin-clouds  odorous.  .,  ^« 

Twelve  tables  stood  in  this  room,  set  round  with  circular  couches,  and 
on  every  table,  was  a  noble  feast  and  the.  statue  of  a  god. 

Lamia,  regal  drest, 

Silently  fticed  about,  and  as  she  went. 

In  pale  contented  sort  of  discofirciit, 

Mission'd  her  viewless. servants  to  enrich 

The  fretted  splendour  of  i^ach  nook  and  niche. 
*         ***         *         *«         « 

Approving  all,  she  faded  at  self-will. 

And  shut  the  chamber  up,  close,  hush'd,  and  still,    . 

Complete  9n'd  ready  for  the  revels  rude. 

When  dreadful  guests  would  come  to  spoil  her  solitude.  ■ 

The  guests  came.  They  wondered  and  talked;  but  their  gossiping 
would  have  ended  well  enough,  M'hen  the  wine  prevailed,  had  not 
ApoUonius,  an  ttiibidden  guc'st^  come  \vith  them.  lie  sat  right  oppo- 
site the  lovers,  and      "  '  '  * 

— Fixed  his  eye,  without  a  (winlle  or  stir 

Full  on  the  alarmisc^lieauiytrf  the  bride, 

Ijrow.-beating  her  fair  form,  and  troubling  her  sweet  pride. 

Lycitts  felt  her  hand  grow  alternately  hot  and  cold,  and  wondered': 
more  and  more  both  at  her  agitation  and  the  condiict  of  his  old  tutOr»'' 
He  looked  into  her  eyes,  but  they  looked  Nothing  in  return  :  he  spoke- 
to  her,  but  she  made  tio  answer:  by  degrees  the  music  ceased,  the 
flowers  faded  away,  lire  pleasure  alldarkeno'd,  and 

A  deadly  silence  step  by  step  increased. 
Until  it  seemed  a  horrid  presence  tliere, 
And  not  a  man  but  felt  the  terroriti  W\i  hair. 

The  bridegroom  at  last  shrieked  out  her  name ;  but  it  was  only  echoed 
back  to  him  by  the  room.  Larola  sat  fixed,  her  face  of  a  deadly 
white.  Ij[e  called  in  mixed  agony  and  rage  to  the  philosopher  to  take, 
jjffljis  (Pyes;  but  ApoUonius,  refusing,  asked  him  whether  his  old  guide 
and  instructor  who  had  preserved  him  from  all  harm  to  that  day,-; 
ought  to  see  him  made  the  prey  of  a  serpent.  A  mortal  fatiitness  came 
into  the  breath  of  X^amia  at  this  word;  she  motioned  him,  as  well: 
as  she  could^  to  be  silent;  btft  looking  her  stedfastly  in  the  face,  he' 
repeated  Serpent!  and  she  vanished  with  a  horrible  scream.  Upon'. 
the  same  night,  died  Lycius^  and  was  swathed  for  the  funeral  in ' 
his  wedding-garments.    '■''''''  ",'.      ^ 

Mr.  Keats  has  departed  as  i^uch  from  common-place  in  the  charactefj 
and  moral  of  this  story,  as  he  has  iqi  the  poetry  of,it.     He  would  m 
fair  play  to  the  serpent,  and  makes  the  power  of  tjie  philosopher  an  ill- 
fjatured  and  disturbing  thing.     Lamia  thpug)^  liable  to  b^  turned  into 


THE  INDICATOR.  341 

painful  shapes  had  a  soal  of  humanity  ;  and  the  poet  does  not  see  why 
she  should  not  hare  her.pleasures  accordingly,  merely  becaasie  a  phi- 
losopher saw  that  she  was  not  a  mathematical  truth.  This  is  fine  and 
good*  It  is  vindicatinfi[  the  greater  philosophy  of  poetry.  At  the 
same  time,  we  wish  that  for  the  purpose  of  his  story  he  had  not  appeared 
to  give  into  the  common-place  of  supposing  (liat  ApoUortius's  sophistif'y 
must  always  prevail,  and  that  modern  experiment  has  done  a  deadly 
thing  to  poetry  by  discovering  the  nature  of  the  rainbow,  the  air,  &c. : 
that  is  to  say,  that  the  knowledge  of  natural  history  and  physics,  by. 
shewing  us  the  nature  of  things,  does  away  the  imaginations  that  once 
adorned  them.  This  is  a  condescension  to  a  learned  vulgarism,  which 
so  excellent  a  poet  as  Mr.  Keats  ought  not  to  have  made.  The  world 
will  always  have  fine  poetry,  as  long  as  it  has  events,  passions,  atfec- 
tious,  and  a  philosophy  that  sees  deeper  than  this  philosophy.  There 
will  be  a  poetry  of  the  heart,  as  long  as  there  are  tears  and  smiles:; 
there  will  be  a  poetry  of  the  imagination,  as  long  as  the  first  causes  of; 
things  remain  a  mystery.  A  man  who  is  no  poet,'  may  think  he  is 
none,  as  soon  as  he  finds  out  the  physical  cause  of  the  rainbow ;  but 
he  need  not  alarm  himself : — he  was  none  before.  The  true  poet  will 
go  deeper.  He  will  ask  himself  what  is  the  cause  of  that  physical/ 
cause;  whether  truths  to  the  senses  are  after  all  to  be  taken  as  truths 
to  the  imagination  ;  and  whether  there  is  not  room  and  mystery  enough 
in  the  universe-fpr  the  creation  pf  infinite  things,  when  the  poor  matter- 
of-fact  philosopher  has  come  to  the  end  of  his  own  vision.  It  is  remark- 
able that  an  age  of  poetry  has  grown  up  with,  the  progress  of  expeii- 
ment ;  and  that  the  very  poets,  who  seem  to  countenance  these  notions, 
accompany  them  by  some  of  their  finest  eifusions.  Even  if  there 
were  nothing  new,  to  be  created,— if  philosophy,  with  its  line  and  rule, 
could  even  score  the  ground,  and  say  to  poetry  "  Thou  shalt  go  no 
further,"  she  wauld  look  back  to  the  old  world,  and  still  find  it  in- 
ejthaustible.  'X^e  crops  from  its  fertility  are  endless.  But  these; 
alarms  are  altogether  idle.  The  essence  of  poetics^l  enjoyment  does 
not  consist  in  belief,  but  in  a  voluntary  power  to  imagine. 

The  next  story,  that  of  the  Pot  of  Basil,  is  from  Boccaccio.  After 
the  narrative  of  that  great  writer,  we  must  make  as  short  work  of  It  as, 
possible  in  prose.  To  turn  one  of  his  stories  into  verse,  is  another 
thing.  It  is  like  setting  it  to  a  more  elaborate  music.  Mr.  Keats  is  so 
struck  with  admiration  of  his  author,  that  eyen  while  giving^him  this 
accompaniment,  he  breaks  out  into  an  apology  to  the  great  Italian, 
asking  pardon  for  this 

— Echo  of  him  in  llie  worlli-wind  sung. 
We  might  waive  a  repetition  of  the  narrjitive  altogether,  as  the  public 
have  lately  been  familiarized  with  it  in  the  Sicilian  Story  of  Mr.  Barry 
Cornwall:  but  we  cannot  help  calling  to  mind  that  the  hero  and 
heroine  were  two  young  and  happy  lovers,  whokept  their  love  a  secret; 
from  her  rich  brothers;  that  her  brothers,  getting  knowledge  of  their^ 
intercourse,  lured  him  into  a  solitary  place,  and  murdered  him;  that 
Isabella,  informed  of  it.  by  a  dreary  vision  of  her  lover,  found  out 
where  he  was  buried,  and  with  the  assistance  of  her  nurse,  severed 
the  head  from  the  bod^  that  she  might  cherish  even  that  ghastly  memo- 


sm.  TJIE  INDICATOR. 

rial  of  hiin  asa  relic  never  io  be  parted  with  ;vtlial  she  buried  the 
bead  in  a  pot  df  earth,  and, planting  basil  over  itj  watered  the  leaved 
AfithJier  coBtiriual  tears  till  they  grew  into  wonderful  beauty  and' 
luinriance  ;  that  hfer  brothers,  prying  into  her  fondness  for  the  Pot  of. 
Basil,  which  she  carried  -with  her  from  place  tp  pldce,  contrived  to 
stediitaway»  that  she  ntade  siich  lamentations  fior  it,  as  induced  them' 
to  wonder  what  could  be  its  valuer  .upoA  -tvhich  thfey  dug  into  it,  and? ' 
discovered  the  head;  that  the  jamazement  of  that  diseotery  struck- 
hiJtk.  upon  their  hearts j  so  that  after  burying  the  head  secretly,  they? 
left  their  native  place,  and  went  to  live  in  a.nother  city  j  a.nd;tbat  Isa*»- 
bella  contJhiied  to  cry  and  moan  for  hei  Pot  of  Basil,  which  ^he  hadr:  > 
not  the  power  to  oease  wishing  foi ;  tillj  «nder  vthe  presstireM  tha*;^ 
weeping  want,  she  died.  :         •   ,  :      •  ■  .r 

♦Our  author  can  pass  to  the  most  striking  imaginations  from  the^ 
most  delicate  and  airy  fancy.  He  says  of  the  lovets  in  their  faappi4' 
riess,         '  ^  J-  ■• 

Parting  they  seemed  fo  tre&cj  upon  ^h^iair,  ,  '       ^ 

Twin  rosea  by.  the  zephyrs. blown  apart  /• 

Only  to  meet  again. more  close,  and  share  ..j 

The  inward  fragrance  of  eacll  other's  heart. 

TTHese  pictures  of  their  intercourse  terribly  aggravate  the  gloiom  .o|^,. 
Vfha^  follows.  JLorrenzo,  when  lured  away  to  be  killed,  is  tal^enunn, ;; 
knowingly  out  of  his  joys,  like  a  lamb  out  of  the  pasture.  The  follow?,]  ? 
ing  masterly  anticipation  of  his  end,  eonveyed  in  a  single  word,  ha^rif 
been  justly  admired;—  -f^' 

So  »be  two  broiherg  and  their  wiMTtfer'd  malt  .  < 

,,  Rode  past  fair.Fforeiice,  to  where  Arno's  stream  ,' 

Guigles  thrpiigh  straitened. banks.  \ 

They  passed  the  vVatet-  '      '             *" 

*•     ■  T       'I'rtto  A  forest  quiet  fot  ike  slanghter.                  '  "     ^' 

When  Mr.  Keats  errs  in  his  poetry,  it  is  from  (he  ill  rjaanagement  ofk' 
^ood  thing, — exuberance  of  ideas.  Once  or  twiiceV  he  does  so  In  a 
taste  positively  bad,  like  Marino. or  Cowley,  as  ia  aj'lihe  in  his  Ode  t^' 
Psyche  ;  ,  '-      "  ;.     '  ",     :  ',.'';'   .,'.■! ''T^i:^'!!.!.*;'^^'^'  'i-^'"'!^ 

At  tender  eVe-daVfl  of  auforean  loT^;"'     ""•"     >    ;•    *  ^  ?^   *  ^  • 

but  it  is  once  or  twice  only,  in  his  present  voluine.     Pfpr  ha$  n& ,erre^  .^ 
ipuch  in  it  in  a  nobler  way.     AVhat  we  allude  to  is  one  or  iwq  passag^ 
in  which  he  over-informs  the  occasion  or  the  speaker;  as  where  the^ 
brothers,* for  instance,  whom  he  describes  as  a  couple  of  mere  "  money- j 
bags,"  are  gifted  with  the  power  of  uttering  the  following  exqv.isitei*.l 
metaphor: — 

"To  day  we  purpose,  ay,  this  hour  we  mount 

To  spur  three  leagues"  towards  the  Apennine: 
Come  down,  wo  pray  thee,  ere  tlie  hot  aun  count 

His  dewy  rosary  on  the  eglantine." 

Btit  to  return  to  the  core  of  the  story. — Observe  the  fervid  misei 
of  the  following. 

She  gaz'd  into  the  fresh-lhrown  mould,  8»  though 

One  glance  did  fully  all  its  secrets  tell; 
Clearly  she  .saw,  as  other  eyes  would  know  ' 

.      ,  .  Palp-iimbsAfil.bottotB.ora  crystal  Swell  r.  ... 


THE  INDICATOR.  9^ 

Upon  the  murderous  spot  she  seefla'd  to  grftjipj 
Like  to  a  iirttive  [ily  of  tlie  dell: 
,   Then  with  her  kniCe,  all  sudden,  she  began    '  .,,, 

To  dig  more  Fervently  than  mieers  Can. 

Soon  she  tiirn'd  up  a  soiled  glove,  whereon 

Her  silk  had- plfty'd  in  piirple  phantasies 
She  kiss'd  it  with  a  lip  more  chill  than  stone  '  " . 

And  put  it  in  her  bosom,  where  it  dries 
And  freezes  utterly  unto  the  bone 

Those  dainties  made  to  still  an  infant's  cries: 
Then 'gan  she  work  again;  nor  stay'd  Iter  care. 
But  to  throw  ba^l^  at  times  her  veiling  hair. 

That  old  nurse  stood  be«ide  her  wondering* 

Until  her  heart  felt  pity  to  the  core 
At  sight  of  such  a  dismal  labouring. 

And  80  she  kneeled,  with  her  locks  all  hoar, 
And  put  her  lean  hands  to  tfie  horrid  thing; 

Three  hours  they  laboiur'd  at  this  travail  sore; 
At  last  they  felt  the  kernel  of  the  grave, 
Ar)d  Isabella  did  not  stamp  and  rave. 

It  is  curious  to  see  how  the  simple  pathos  of  Boccaccio,  or  (which 
is  the  same  thing)  the  simple  intensity  of  the  heroine's  feeliiigs,  suffices 
our  author  more  and  more,  as  he  gets  to  the  end  of  his  story.  And  he 
has  related  it  as  happily,  as  if  he  had  never  written  any  poetry  but 
that  of  the  heart.  The  passage  about  the  tone  of  her  voice, — the  poor 
lost-witted  coaxing, — the  "  chuckle/'  in  which  she  asks  after  her 
Pilgrim  and  her  Basil,-^->is  as  true  and  touching  an  instaii'je  of  the 
effect  of  a  happy  familiar  word,  as  any  in  all  poetry.  The  poet  bids 
his  imagination  depart^ 

For  Isabel,  sweet  fsabel^  will  die; 

Will  die  a  death  loo  lone  and  incomplete,  , 

Now  they  have  ta'en  away  her  Basil  sweet. 

Piteous  she  look'd  on-  dead  and  senseless  things, 

Asking  for  her  lost  Basil  amorously; 
And  with  melodiout*  chuckle  in  the  strings 

Of  her  lorn  voice,  she  oftentimes  would  cry 
After  the  Pilgrim  in  his  wanderings. 

To  ask  him  where  her  Basil  was;  and  why 
'Twas  hid  from  Iter:  *'  For  cruel  'tis."  said  slie, 
*'  To  steal  my  Basil-pot  away  from  me," 

And  so  she  pined,  and  so  she  died  forlornr 

Imploring  for  her  Basil  to  the  last. 
No  heart  was  there  in  Florence  but  did  mourn 

In  pity  ofher  love,  «o  overcast. 
And  a  sad  ditty  of  this  story  born  i 

From  month  to  month  through  all  the  country  pass'd : 
Stitr  is  the  burthen  sung — "  O  cruelty, 

"  To  steal  my  Basil-pot  away  from  me!" 

The  Eve  of  St.  Agnes,  which  is  rather  a  picture  than  a  story,  may 
be  analysed  in  a  few  words.  It  is  an  account  of  a  young  beauty,  who 
going  to  bed  on  the  eve  in  question  to  dream  of  her  lover,  while  her 
rich  kinsmen,  the  opposers  of  his  Itjve,  are  keeping  holday  in  the  rest 
of  the  house,  finds  herself  waked  by  him  in  the  night,  and  in  the  hurry 
of  the  moment  agrees  to  elope  with  him.  The  portrait  of  the  heroine, 
preparing  to  go  to  bed,  is  remarkable  for  its  union  of  extreme  richness 
and  good  taste;  not  that  those  two  properties  of  description^ are  natu- 


341  THE  INDICATOR. 

rally  distinct ;  but  that  they  are  too  often  sepnrated  by  very  good 
poets,  and  that  the  passage  affords  a  striking  specimen  of  the  sudden 
and  stroMg  maturity  of  the  author's  genius.  When  he  wrote  Endymion 
he  could  not  have  resisted  doing  too  much.  To  the  description  before 
us,  it  would  be  a  great  injury  eithelf-'to  jidd  or  diminish.  It  falls  at 
once  gorgeously  and  delicately  upon  us,  tike  the  colours  of  the  painted 
ftlass.  Nor  is  Madeline  hurt  by  all  her  encrusting  jewelry  and  rustling 
silks.  Her  gentle,  unsophisticated  heart  is  in  the  midst,  and  turns 
them  into  so  many  ininistrants  to  her  loveliness. 

A  casement  high  and  triple-arch'd  there  was,    ' 
All  garlanded  with  carven  imag'iies 
OtTruiis,  and  flowers,  and  bunches  of  knot-grass. 
And  diamonded  with  panes  of  quaint  device,  .. 
Iiinumerable,of  stains  and  tipleiidid  dyes,  . 
As  are  ilie  tiger-molh's  deep-damask  d  wings; 
And  in  tlie;midst,  'mong  thousand  heraldries^ 
And  twiliglil  saints,  and  dim  embiazonin»s, 
A  sliieided  scutcheon  blu$h'd.with  blood  of  queens  and  kii^gs. 

FulV  on  thisx:ageinent  shone  ihe  wintry  moon. 
And  threw  warm  gules  on  Madeline's  fine  breast. 
As  d.^wn  she  kneil  for  heaven's  grace  and  boon; 
Hose-bloom  fell  on  hep  hands,  lojjether  prest ; 
And  on  her  silver  cross  pale  amethyst. 
And  on  her  hair  a  B;lory,  like  a  saint; 
She  seem'd  a  splendid  angel,  newly  drest, 
'  Save  wings,  for  heaven: — Porphyro  grew  faint : 

&ie  knelt,  so  pure  a  thing,  so  fr«e  from  mortal  taint. 

A«on  jus  heart  revives:  her  vaspers  done,  > 
Of  all  ii»  wreathed  pearls  her  hair  she  free;*; 
Unclasps  her  warmed  jewels  one  hy  one; 
Loosens  her  fragiant  boddice;  by  d^-grees 
Her  rich  atiire  ci-eeps  rnstlirig  to  her  knees} 
Half-hidden,  like  a  mermaid  in  sea-weed,  - 

Pensive  awhile  she  dreams  awake,  and  sees. 
In  fancy,  fair  Saint  Agnes  in  her  bed,      - 
But  dares  not  look  behind,  or  all  the  charm  is  fled. 

Soon,  trembling  in  her  soft  and  chilly  nest, 
]n  sort  of  wakeful  swoon,  perplex'd  she  lay. 
Until  the  poppied  warmih  of  sleep  oppress'd 
Her  soothed*  limbs',  and  soul  fatigued  away  ; 
Flown  like  a  thouuht  until  the  morrow-day; 
Blissfully  l>aven'4bolh  from  joy  and  paiit; 
Clasp'd  like  a  missal  wliere  svvart  Paynima  pray; 
Blinded  alike  from  sunshine  and  from  rain, 
As  though  a  rose  should  shut,  and  be  a  bud  again. 

Is  not  this  perfectly  beautiful  ? 

[Want  of  room  compels  us  to  break  off  here.  We  canftot  leave  the 
reader  at  a  better  place.  The  remainder  of  the  criticism  must  occupy 
the  beginning  of  our  next  number.] 


Printed  and  published  hy  Joskfh  Appleyard,  No.  19,  Catherine-street,  Slraijd. 
Price  2d.— And  sold  also  by  Ai  Gliddon,  Importer  of  Snnf«,  No.  31,  Tavistork- 
slrfet,  Covent-gardpH.  Orders  received  at  the  above  places,  and  by  all  Uoek- 
s(.Hersai)d  Nevvsmeu.         >  .  -        ' 


THE    INDICATOR. 

.  :    .    -  •;-■  .,,u  B-i,;i  O 

^  There  he  arriving  rouiid  about  doth  flie,  ■  ', , 

■And  talv^s  survey  virith  busie  curious  eye:        •    • 
Now  this,  riow  that,  lie  tasteth  tenderly. 

SpENSG*. 


No.  XLIV.—WEDNESDAY,  AUGUST  9%  1820. 


THE  STORIES  OP  LAMIA,  THE  POT  OF  BASIL,  THE  EVE  OF 
ST,  AGNES,  &c.  AS  TOLD  BY  MR.  KEATS. 

(continued    FROM    L^ST  \^KBJJri;;,.  ' 

As  a  specimen  of  the  Poems,  which  are  all  lyrfcal,  we  must  indulge 
ourselves  in  quoting  entire  the  Ode  to  a  Nightingale.  There  is  that 
mixture  in  it  of  real  melancholy  and  imaginatrve  relief,  which  poetry 
alone  presents  us  in  her  "  charmed  cup,"  and  which  some  dver-rational 
critics  have  undertaken  .to  find  wrong  because  it  is  n^t  true.  It 
does  not  follow  that  what  is  not  true-  to  them,  is  not  true  to  others. 
If  the  relief  is  real,  the  mixture  is  good  and  sufficing.  A  poet  finds  re- 
freshment in  his  imaginary  wine,  as  other  men  do  Jn  their  real ;  nor 
have  we  the  lea§t  doubt,  that  Milton  found  his  grief  fqr  the  loss  of  his 
friend  King,  more  solaced  by  the  allegoricg-l  recollections  of  Lycidas, 
(which  were  exercises  of  his  mind,  and  recollections  of  a  friend  who 
would  have  admired  them)  than  if  be  could  have  anti?ipated  Dr. 
Johnson's  objections,  and  mourned  in  nothing  but  broadcloth  and 
matter  of  fact.  He  yearned  after  the  poetical  as  well  aS, social  part  of 
his  friend's  nature ;  ^nd  had  as  much  right  to  fancy  it  straying  in  the 
wilds  and  oceans  of  romance,  where  it  had  strayed,  as  in  the  avenues 
of  Christ's  College  wherd' his  body  bad.  walked.  In  the  same  spirit 
the  imagination  of  Mr.  Keats'befakes  itself,  tike  the  Wind,  *'  where  it 
listeth,"  and  is  as  truly  th^ere,  ast  if  his  feet  could  follow  it; :  The  poem, 
will  be  the  more  striking  to  the  reader,  when  he  understands  what  we 
take  a  friend's  liberty  m  telling  him,  that  the  author's  powerful  mind 
has  for  some  time  past  been  inhabiting  a  sickened  and  shaken  body, 
and  that  in  the  mean  while  it  has  had  to  contend  with  feelings  that 
make  a  fine  nature  ache  f5r' its  species,  even  whe^' it  ■^"Ould  disdain  to 
do  so  for  itself  ;^-~W(B„. mean,  critical malignity,^ — (h^t  ujihappy  envy, 
which  wpuld  wreak  its  own  tortures  uptHi  ofcherSy  especially  upon 
those  that  really  feql  for  it  already.  , 

My  heart  acbes^  and  Q, drowsy  imnobftess  pain? 
My  sense,  as  though  of  hemlock  1  had  drujik. 
Or  emptied  3oin,e  dull  opiate  to  the  drains 

One  miniite  past,  and  Lethe-wards  had  sunk  : 
'Tis  riot  through  envy  of  thy  happy  lot. 
But  beinjf  toq  bpppy  in  lliine  happiness, — 
That  thou,  light- winged  Dryad  of  the  trees, 
...,Irt  s6me, melodious  plot  '     ■,      ) 

Ofbeechen  gjeen,  and  shadows  numberless, 
Sinsfesl  of  summer  in  fuU-lhroated  ease. 


346  THE  INDICATOR. 

O,  fof  a  draught  of  vintage!  that  halli  been 

Cool'd  a  long  age  in  the  deep-delved  earth, 
Tjwtipg  of  Fior%  and  ilie  country  green, 
,     Daticp,  a|id  g'roven^al  sdpg,  and  simburr\t  inirlli  f  ^ 
O  for  a  beaker  full  of  the  warm  South'^  '      '  ' 

Full  of  the  true,  the  blushful  Hippocrene, 
With  beaded  bubbles  winking  at  the  briiti. 
And  purple-stained  moutli} 
Tliatl  iuight  drink,  and  leave  the  world  unseen. 
And  with  thee  ftid^  away jnto  the  forest  dim: 

P  ^^Fade.far  away,  dissolve,  and  quite  forget 
•  vJ-  ■-,  I  i^^|,£}t  tho'u  among  the  leaves  hast  never  known,    .    . 
The  weariness,  the  fever,  and  the  fret 

Here,  where  men  sit  and  hear  each  other  proan; 
Where  palsy  shakes  a  few,  sad,  last  gray  hairs, 
10    ir/rr    nrWIiere'youth  grows  pule,  and  spectre-lhin,aHddies;,-. 
.W.her?  but  to  think  is  to  be  fall  of  sorrow 
>    ,  And  leaden-eyed  despairs,  .     •      - 

Where  Beauty  cannot  keep  her  lustrous  eyes, 
,   Or  new  Love  pine  at  them  beyond  to-mojTLOw. 
■   ;■     ..-,■.  ■■'  .0  i;^,riiJoq2  x;  rA 

■'     'Away!  aj*&y!  for  I  will  fly  to  thee,  r,,,:i^r.n    ,.:-.;-,r,, 

7";  J'O,;  i,:j<  '     Not  charioted  by  Bacchus  and  his  pards, 
»".'inij?5t~-   Hut  on  the  viewless  wings  of  Poesy, 
.,•  '.'  L     '     Though  the  dull  brain  perplexes  and  retards: 

•  OUIJ     Already  with  thee!  tender  is  the  night, 
f2'l';»fiio  0|     ,  And  haply  the  Queen-Moon  is  on  her  throne, 
-O'i  >}•:]]  j  ■' ;:    Clusterd  around  by  all  her  starry  Fays; 
•,r"   ,'..,„,,:,,!;         But  here  there  is  no  light, 

'  '"'  ''   "  .Sive  what  from  heaven  is  with  the  breezes  blown 
'■■HO.  'Ji'.)   Through  verdurous  glooms  and  winding  iriossy  ways. 

,,,|-  I  cannot  see  what  flowers  are  at  my  feet, 

„     .  Nor  what  soft  inceuse  hangs  upon  the  boughs, 

'   "^ '  But,  in  embalmed  darkness,  gUess  each  svteet 

.I'.-r,  :  Wherewith  the  seasonable  month  endows 

iol;;.  The  grass,  the  thicket,  and  the  fruit-tree  wild  ; 

;,  White  hawthorn,  and  the  pastoral  eglantine  J 

Fast  fading  violets  cover'd  up  in  leaves ; 

'^'•■'•''  ••  And  raid-May's  eldest  child, 

jjiftj;.  ;.  The;  coming  musk-rose,  full  of  dewy  wine, 

•I'  'iiwi /r '•     *     The  murmurous  haunt  of  flies  on  summer  eves. 

J.  -jx.nxv       ,,  ir/KiiiBjn.- 

ino^q  oriT  Darkling  i  listen;  and,  for  many  a  time'       '  -    ;     >■  ,'  ' -i^  ' 

'  //  ixid'//  '/.      1  have  been  half  in  love  with  easeful  Death,  '  «! 

liViVX    f!i>',-  Call'd  him  soft  names  in  many  a  mused  rhyme, 

-If.,,-'       Tp  take  int©  the  air  my  quiet  breath  ;      ■    V'  <  .  :    m  ;  i  >;  :j>  li^j 

,  {\iMS  i'lOit  •;    '    fj^o^  more  than  ever  seems  it  rich  to  die$:q  etnij  ymos  lol  '\v\ 
iiJfll    gJiJindiTo cease  upon  the  midnight  with  no  pain,  ,    ^r  ijij  ^rfj  /jf  Jj'iH  f)i! 
oifiliifiPif)  n'  While  Uiou  art  pouring  forth  thy  soul  abroaoT        .  .  .     -■ 

.    .     .   „,,..  In  such  an  ecstasy !  ••#.j^...  ... 

\:\    "'S^ill  wouldst  thou  sing,  and  I  have  ears  in  Vain-^'^'''''-5J  ti'l  0>. 
^.'..  .;..(].  To  thy  higli.  requiem  become  a  sod.  '   •); 'r  f.lr.'iTV    ffiJii* 

/  Thou  wast  not  born  for  death,  immortal  Bird  ! 

No  hujigi"y  generations  tread  thee  down  ; 
The  voice  I  hear  this  passing  night  was  heard 

In  ancient  duys  by  emperor  and  clown : 
Perhaps  the  self-same  song  that  found  a  path 

Through  the  sad  heart  of  Ruth,  when,  siek  for  home, 
She  stood  in  tears  amid  the  al^n  com  ;    ^ 
The  same  that  oft-times  hath 
Charm'd  magia  casements,  opening  on  the  foam 
Of  perilous  seas,  iti  faery  lands  forlorn. 


THE  INDICATOR.  347 

.  ,'  '     !.  Forlorn!  tlie  very  word  is  Hkea  bell 

To  toll  me  back  from  thee  to  my  sole  self! 
Adieu  !  the  fancy  cannot  cheat  so  well 
As  she  is  fam'd  to  do,  deceiving  elf. 
Adieu  !  adieu  !  thy  plaintive  anthem  fades 
'  Past  the  near  meadows,  over  the  still  stream, 

Up  the  hill-side;  and  now 'tis  buried  deep      * 

In  the  next  valley-glades:  '■  '"'  '  "^  '  ■  ■  ' 

Was  it  a  vision,  or  a  waking  dream  ?        I  "•'  i!;;i.'t;  :rj  T 

Fled 4s  that  music: — Do  I  wake  or  6leep?*''Kl  hiiA- 

:  ■    -■       ■     •   ■        •■'•  y«if>  r.i> 

The  Hyperion  is  a  fragment,— a  gigantic  one,  like  a'  ruin  in  the 
desart,  or  the  bones  of  the  mastodon.  It  is  truly  of  a  piece  with  its 
subject,  which  is  the  downfall  of  the  elder  gods.  It  opens  with  Saturn, 
dethroned,  sitting  in  a  deep  and  solitary  valley,  benumbed  in  spite  of 
his  huge  powers  with  the  amazement  of  the  change. 

Deep  in  the  shady  sadness  of  a  vale 

Far  sunken  from  the  healthy  breath  of  morn. 

Far  from  the  fiery  noon,  and  eve's  one  star. 

Sat  gray-hair'd  Saturn,  qniet  as  a  stone,  ' 

Still  as  the  silence  round  about  his  lair; 

Forest  on  forest  hung  about  his  head  .  ; . 

Like  cloud  on  cloud.    No  stir  of  air  was  there,  . /\ 

Not  so  much  life  as  on  a  summer's  day 

Robs  not  one  light  seed  from  the  feather'd  grass, 

But  where  the  dead  leaf  fell,  there  did  it  rest. 

A  stream  went  voiceless  by,  still  deadened  more 

By  reason  of  his  fallen  divinity 

Spreading  a  shade;  the  Naiad 'mid  her  reeds 

Press'd  her  cold  finger  closer  to  her  lips. 

Along  the  margin-sand  large  foot-marks  went, 
No  further  than  to  where  his  feet  had  stray'd, 
And  slept  there  since.    Upon  the  sodden  ground 
His  old  right  hand  lay  nerveless,  listless,  dead, 
Unsceptred ;  and  his  realmiess  eyes  were  closed  ; 
While  his  bow'd  head  seem'd  lisl'ning  to  the  Earth,  ; 

His  ancient  mother,  for  some  comfort  yet. 

It  seem'd  no  force  could  wake  him  from  his  pla,ce; 
But  there  came  one,  who  with  a  kindred  hand 
Touc}»'*l  his  wide  shoulders,  after  bending  low 
With  reverence,  though  to  one  who  knew  it  not» 
She  was  a  Goddess  of  the  infant  world; 
By  her  in  stature  the  tall  Amazon  •! 

Had  stood  a  pigmy's  height;  she  would  have  ta'jeu  ,rj 
Aphilles  by  the  hair  and  bent  his  neck ;  '..    .'liff 

Or  with  a  finger  stay'd  I}jion's  wheel.  '  ' Mrxl  io'A 

Her  face  was  large  as  that  of  Memphian  sphios^,,  ,■  •  i/i. 
Pedestal'd  haply  in  a  palace  court,  :  j  > 

When  sages  look'd  to  Egypt  for  their  lore.  ;,  ^ 

But  oh!  how  unlike  marble  was  that  face:  '  j 

How  beautiful-,  if  sorrow  had  not  made 
Sorrow  more  beautiful  than  Befiuty's  self. 
There  was  a  listening  fear  in  her  regard, 
As  if  calamity  had  but  begun; 

As  if  the  vanward  clouds  of  evil  days  >  [ 

Had  spent  their  malice,  and  the  sullen  rear 
Was  with  its  stored  thunder  labouring  up.  ' 

By  degrees,  the  Titans  meet  in  one  spot,  to  consult  how  they  Hjay 
regain  their  lost  empire ;  but  Clymene  the  gentlest,  and  Oceanus  the 
most  reflective  of  those  earlier  deities,  tell  them  that  it  is  irrecoverable. 
A  Tery  grand  and  deep-thoughted  cause  is  assigned  for  this  by  the 


348  THE  INDICATOR. 

latter.  Intellect,  he  gives  them  to  understand,  was  inevitably  dis- 
placing a  more  brute  power. 

Great  Saturn,  thou 
Hast  sifted  well  the  atom  universe; 
But  for  this  reason,  that  thou  art  the  King, 
And  only  blind  from  sheer  supremacy. 
One  avenue  was  shaded  from  thine  eyes, 
Througli  which  I  wandered  to  eternal  truth. 
And  first,  as  thou  wast  not  the  first  of  powers. 
So  thou  art  not  the  last ;  it  cannot  be : 
t  (    ,1    iiji  i-Thou  art  not  the  begianing  mw"  the  end. 

r:U    ;>}]V.    •;;.'■)•*  ****** 

■  Now  comes  the  pain  of  truth,  to  vvhom 'tis  pain; 
O  folly!  for  to  bear  all  naked  truths. 
And  to  envisage  circumstance,  all  calm, ' 
^  That  is  the  top  of  sovereignty.     Mark  well! 

As  Heaven  and  Earth  are  fairer,  fairer  far 
Than  Chaos  and  blank  Darkness,  though  once  chiefs  ; 
And  as  we  show  beyond  that  Heaven  and  Earth 
In  form  and  shape  compact  and  beautiful, 
In  will,  in  action  free,  companionship. 
And  thousand  other  signs  of  purer  life; 
So  on  our  heels  a  fresh  perfection  treads, 
A  power  more  strong  in  beauty,  born  of  us 
And  fated  to  excel  us,  as  we  pass 
In  glory  that  old  Darkness. 

The  more  imaginative  parts  of  the  poem  are  worthy  of  this  sublime 
moral.  Hyperion,  the  God  of  the  Sun,  is  the  last  to  give  way;  but 
horror  begins  to  visit  his  old  beautitude  with  new  and  dread  sensations. 
The  living  beauty  of  his  palace,  whose  portals  open  like  a  rose,  the 
awful  phaenomena,  that  announce  a  change  in  heaven,  and  his  inability 
to  bid  the  day  break  as  he  was  accustomed, — all  this  part,  in  short, 
which  is  the  core  and  inner  diamond  of  the  poem,  we  must  enjoy  with 
the  reader. 

His  palace  bright 

Bastion'd  with  pyramids  of  glowing  goW, 

And  touch'd  with  shade  of  bronzed  obelisks, 

Glar'd  a  blood-red  through  all  its  thousand  courts, 

Archesj  and  domes,  and  fiery  galleries; 

And  all  its  curtains  of  Aurorean  clouds 

Flush'd.  angerly :  while  sometimes  eagle's  wings, 

Unseen  before  by  Gods  or  wondering  men, 

Darken'd  the  place;  and  neighing  steeds  were  heard^ 

Not  heard  before  by  Gods  or  wondering  men. 

Also,  when  he  would  taste  the  spicy  wreaths 

Of  incense,  breath'd  aloft  from  sacred  hills, 

Instead  of  sweets,  his  ample  palate  took 

Savour  of  poisonous  brass  and  metal  sick  : 

And  so,  when  harbour'd  in  the  sleepy  west. 

After  the  full  completion  of  fair  day. — 

For  rest  divineupon  exalted  couch 

And  slumber  in  the  arms  of  melody. 

He  pac'd  away  the  pleasant  hours  of  ease 

With  stride  colossal,  or  from  hall  to  hall ; 

While  far  within  each  aisle  and  deep  recess. 

His  winged  minions  in  close  clusters  stood, 

Amaz'd  and  full  of  fear;  like  anxious  naen  ■ 

,  .  .  'Who  on  wide  plains  gather  in  panting  troops. 

When  earthquakes  jar  their  battlements  and  towers. 
•    '■     '  'f"^'     Even  now,  while  Saturn,  rous'd  from  icy  trance, 
.  )lj   »{d   ?iilJ  Went  btep  for  step  with  Thea  througli  tUe  woods. 


THE  INDICATOR-  349 

Hypei'ion,  leaving  twiliglit  in  the  rear. 

Came  slope  upon  llie  threshold  of  tiie  west; 

Then,  as  was  wont,  !>is  palace-door  flew  ope 

In  smoothest  silence,  save  what  solemn  tubes. 

Blown  by  tiie  serious  Zephyrs,  gave  of  sweet 

And  wandering  sounds,  slow-breatlied  melodies; 

And  like  a  rose  in  vermeil  tint  and  shape. 

In  fragrance  soft,  and  coolness  to  the  eye. 

That  inlet  to  severe  magnificence 

Stood  full  blown,  for  the  God  to  enter  in. 

He  enter'd,  but  he  enter'd  full  of  wrath  ; 

His  flaming  robes  streamed  out  beyond  his  Jieela, 

And  gave  a  roar,  as  if  of  earthly  fire. 

That  scar'd  away  the  meek  ethereal  Hotirs 

And  made  their  dove-wings  tremble.     On  he  fiared. 

From  stately  nave  to  nave,  from  vault  to  vault. 

Through  bowers  of  fragrant  and  enwreailied  light. 

And  diamond-paved  lustrous  long  arcades. 

Until  lie  reacird  the  great  main  cupola; 

Tiiere  standing  fierce  beneath,  he  stanipt  liis  foot. 

And  from  the  basements  deep  to  the  high  towers 

Jarr'd  his  own  golden  region;  and  before 

The  quavering  thunder  thereupon  had  ceas'd,  , 

His  voice  leapt  out,  despite  of  godlike  curb. 

To  this  results  "  O  dreams  of  day  and  niglil! 

"  O  monstrous  forms  1     O  effigies  of  pain! 

*'  O  spectres bnsy  in  a  cold,  cold  gloom  ! 

*'  O  lank-eared  Phantoms  of  black-weeded  pmols  ! 

*♦  Why  do  I  know  ye  ?  why  hare  I  seen  ye?  wJny 

*'  Is  my  eternal  essence  thus  distraught 

*'  To  see  and  to  beliold  these  horrors  new  ? 

"  Saturn  is  fallen,  am  I  too  to  fall  ? 

*'  Am  I  to  leave  this  haven  of  my  rest, 

*'  This  cradle  of  my  glory,  this  soft  clime, 

*' This  calm  luxuriance  of  blissful  light, 

"  These  crystalline  pavilions,  and  piire.fones, 

*'•  Of  all  my  lucent  empire  ?     It  is  left 

**  Deserted,  void,  noranv  haunt  of  mine. 

*'  Thebla2e,  the  splendor,  and  the  symmetry, 

**  I  cannot  see — but  darkness,  death  and  darkucss. 

*'  Even  here,  into  my  centre  of  repose, 

*'  The  shady  visions  come  to  domineer, 

*'  Insult,  and  blind,  and  stifle  up  my  pomp. — 

*'  Fall ! — No,  by  Tellus  and  her  briny  robes ! 

*'  Over  the  fiery  frontier  of  my  realms 

*'  I  will  advance  a  terrible  right  arm 

"  Shall  scarce  that  infant  tiumderer,  rebel  Jove, 

"  And  bid  old  Saturn  take  his  throne  again." — 

He  spake,  and  ceas'd,  the  while  a  heavier  threat 

Held  struggle  with  his  throat  but  came  notforl'i; 

For  as  in  theatres  of  crowded  men 

Hubbub  increases  rpore  they  call  oHt  *'  Hush!" 

So  at  Hyperion's  words  the  Phantoms  pale 

Bestirred  themselves,  thrice  horrible  and  cold; 

And  from  the  mirror'd  level  where  he  stood 

A  mist  arose,  as  from  a  scummy  marsh. 

At  this,  through  all  his  bulk  an  agony 

Crept  gradual,  from  the  feet  unto  the  crown. 

Like  a  lithe  serpent  vast  and  muscular 

Making  slow  way,  with  liead  and  neek  convuls'd 

From  over-strained  might.     Releas'd,  he  fled 

'J'o  the  eastern  gates,  and  full  six  dewy  hours 

Before  the  dawn  in  season  due  should  blush. 

He  breath'd  fierce  breath  against  llieslee|.y  porlaU, 

Cleai'd  them  of  heavy  vapours,  burst  them  wide 


S50  THE  INDICATOR. 

SiiJdenly  on  til e  ocean's  cliilty  streams. 

Tl>e  planet  orb  of  fire,  whereon  he  rode 

Each  day  from  east  to  west  the  lieavens  throwglt. 

Spun  round  in  sable  curtaining  of  clouds; 

Not  therefore  veiled  quite,  blindfold,  and  liid. 

But  ever  and  anon  the  glancing  splieres. 

Circles,  and  arcs,  and  broad-belting  colure, 

Glow'd  through,  and  wrought  opon  tire  muffling  dsjrk  ' 

Sweet-shaped  lightnings  from  the  nadir  deep 

Up  to  the  zenith, — hieroglyphics  old. 

Which  sages  and  keen-eyed  astrologers 

Then  Irving  on  the  earth,  with  labouring  thought 

Won  from  the  gazeof  many  centuries: 

Now  lost,  save  what  vve  find  on  remnants  huge 

Of  stone,  or  marble  swart ;  their  import  gone. 

Their  wisdom  long  since  fled. — Two  wings  this  orb 

Poss^ss'd  for  glory,  two  fair  argent  wings, 

Ever  exalted  at  the  God's  approach  : 

And  now,  from  forth  the  gloom  their  plumes  immense 

Rnse,  one  by  one,  till  all  outspfeaded  were  ; 

While  still  the  dazzling  globe  maintain'd  eclipse. 

Awaiting  for  Hyperion's  command. 

Fain  would  he  have  commanded,  fain  took  throne 

And  bid  the  day  begin,  if  but  for  change. 

He  might  not: — No,  though  a  primeval  God  : 

The  sacred  seasons  might  not  be  disturb'd. 

Therefore  the  operations  of  the  dawn 

Stay'd  in  their  birth,  even  as  here  'tis  told. 

Those  silver  wings  expanded  sisterly. 

Eager  to  sail  their  orb;  the  porches  wide 

Open'd  upon  the  dusk  demesnes  of  night  ; 

And  the  bright  Titan,  phrenzied  with  nevv  woes, 

Unus'd  to  bend,  by  hard  compulsion  bent 

His  spirit  to  the  sorrow  of  the  time  ; 

And  all  along  a  dismal  rack  of  clouds. 

Upon  the  boundaries  of  day  and  night. 

He  stretcli'd  himself  in  grief  and  radiance  faint. 

T!ie  other  Titans,  lying  half  lifeless  in  their  valley  of  despairj  are  hap- 
pily compared  to 

A  dismal  cirque 
Of  Druid  Stones,  upon  a  forlorn  moor. 
When  the  chill  rain  begins  at  shut  of  ete,  '  '' 

In  dull  November,  and  their  chancel  vault, 
The  Heaven  itself,  is  blinded  thronghoui  night. 

The  fragment  ends  with  the  deification  of  Apollo.  It  strikes  us  that 
fhero  is  something  too  effeminate  and  human  in  the  way  in  which 
Apollo  receives  the  exaltation  which  his  wisdom  is  giving  him.  He 
weeps  and  wonders  somewhat  too  fondly  ;  but  his  powers  gather  nobly 
on  him  as  he  proceeds.  lie  exclaims  to  Mnemosyne,  the  Goddess  of 
Memory, 

Knowledge  enormous  makes  a  God  of  me. 

Names,  deeds,  gray  legends,  dire  events,  rebelliong. 

Majesties,  sovran  voices,  agonies, 

Creations  and  destroyings,  all  at  once 

Pour  into  the  wide  hollows  of  my  brain. 

And  deify  me,  as  if  some  blithe  vi'me 

Or  bri«;ht  elixir  peerless  I  had  drunk. 

And  so  become  iinmorlal. 


THE  mDICATOR.;  351 

After  this  speech,  he  is  seized  wi.th  a  glow  of  aspii'ation,  and  an  inten- 
sity of  pain,  proportioned  (o  ihe  causes  that  are  changing  him  ;  Mne- 
mosyne upholds  her  arms,  as  one  who  prophesied ;  and 

At  lengtli 
Apollo  slirielied  ; — andlol  from  all  his  limbs 
.  Celestial         •♦•*♦* 

Here  the  poem  ceases,  to  the  great  impatience  of  the  poetical  reader. 
If  any  living  poet  could  finish  this  fragment,  we  believe  it  is  the 
author  himself.  But  perhaps  he  feels  that  he  ought  not.  A  story 
which  involves  passion,  almost  of  necessity  involves  speech;  and 
though  we  may  well  enough  describe  beings  greater  than  ourselves  by 
comparison,  unfortunately  we  cannot  make  them  speak  by  comparison. 
Mr.  Keats,  when  he  first  introduces  Thea  consoling  Saturn,  says  that 
she  spoke  .  ^rl^^ 

ji.  1  '...  -  Some  mourning  words,  wl'iich  in  our  feeble  tongue  ■■  ''^^  '" 

(lUOy  yjjtWould  come  iu  these  like  accents;  O  liovv  frail  '  • 

.,,,,,,    To  tliat  large  utterance  of  the  early  Gods! 

•This  grand  confession  of  want  of  grandeur  is  all  that  he  could  do  for 
them.  Milton  could  do  no  more.  Nay,  he  did  less,  when  according 
to  Pope  he  made 

Gbd  the  father  turn  a  school  divine. 

The  moment  the  Gods  speak,  we  forget  that  they  did  not  speak  like 
ourselves.  .  The  fact  is,  they  feel  like  ourselves  ;  and  the  poet  would 
have  to  make  them  feel  otherwise,  even  if  he  could  make  them  speak 
otherwise,  which  he  cannot,  unless  he  venture  upon  an  obscurity  which 
would  destroy  our  sympathy  :  and  what  is  sympathy  with  a  God,  but 
turning  him  into  a  man  ?  We  allow,  that  superiority  and  inferiority 
are,  after  all,  human  terms,  and  imjply, something  not  so  truly  fine  and 
iioble  as  the  levelling  of  a  great  sympathy  and  love  ;  but  poems  of  the 
present;  nature,  like  Paradise. Lost,  assume  a  different  principle  ;  apd 
fortunately  perhaps,  it  is  one  which  it  is  impossible  to  reconcile  with 
the  other. 

\Ve  have  now  to  conclude  the  surprise  of  the  reader,  who  has  seen 
what  solid  stuff  these  poems  are  made  of,  with  informing,  him  of  what 
the  book  has!  not  mentioned, — that  they  were  almost  all  'written  four 
years  ago,  when  the  author  was  but  twenty.  Ay,  indeed  I  cries  a 
critic,  rubbing  his  hands  delighted  (if  indeed  even  criticism  can  do 
so,  any  longer) ;  "  then  that  accounts  for  the  lines  you  speak  of,  writ^- 
Xew  in  the  taste  of  Marino."- — It  does  so  ;  but,  sage  Sir,  after  settling 
the  merits  of  those  one  or  two  lines  you  speak  of,  what  accounts,,  pray, 
for  a  small  matter  which  you  leave  unnoticed,  namel}'^,  all  the  rest  ? — 
The  truth  is,  we  rather  mention  this  circumstance  as  a  matter  of  ordi- 
nary curiosity,  than  any  thing  else  ;  for  great  faculties  have  great  pri- 
vileges, and  leap  over  time  as  well  as  other  obstacles.  Time  itself, 
and  its  continents,  are  things  yet  to  be  discovered.  There  is  no  know- 
ing even  how  much  duration  one  man  may  crowd  into  a  few  years, 
while  others  drag  out  their  slender  lines.  There  are  circular  roads 
full  of  hurry  and  scenery,  and  straight  roads  full  of  listlessness  and 
barrenness  j  and  travellers  may  arrive  by  both,  at  the  same  hour.    The 


852  THE  INDICATOR. 

Miltons,  who  bfgin  iiitelloctually  old,  and  still  intellectual,  end  pbysf- 
cally  old,  are  indeed  Methusalems ;  and  may  such  be  our  author, 
thcMi-  son. 

Mr.  Kta(s's  versification  sometimes  reminds  us  of  Milton  in  his 
blank  verse,  and  sometimes  of  Chapman  both  in  his  blatik  verse  and 
rhyme^  but  his  faculties,  essentially  speaking,  though  partaking  of  the 
unearthly  aspirations  and  abstract  yearnings  of  both  these  poets,  are 
aWogether  his  own.  They  are  ambitious,  but  less  directly  so.  They 
are  more  social,  and  in  the  finer  sense  of  the  word,  sensual,  than  either. 
They  are  more  coloured  by  the  modern  philosophy  of  sympathy  and 
natural  justice.  Endymion,  with  all  its  extraordinary  powers,  partook 
of  the  faults  of  youth,  though  the  best  ones-j  but  the  reader  of  Hyperion 
and  these  other  stories  would  liever  guess  that  they  were  written  at 
twenty.  The  author's  versification  is  now  perfected,  the  exuberances 
of  bis  imagination  restrained,  and  a  calm  power,  the  surest  and  loftiest 
of  all  power,  takes  place  of  the  impatient  workings  of  the  younger 
god  within  him.  The  character  of  his  genius  is  that  of  energy  and 
voluptuousness,  each  able  at  will  to  take  leave  of  the  other,  and  pos- 
sessing, in  their  union,  a  high  feeling  of  huins^nity  not  common  to  the 
best  authors  who  can  less  combine  them*  Mr.  Keats  undoubtedly 
takes  his  seat  with  the  oldest  and  best  of  our  living  poets. 

We  have  carried  our  criticism  to  much  greater  length  than  we  in- 
tended ;  but  in  truth,  whatever  the  critics  might  think,  it  is  a  refresh- 
ment to  us  to  get  upon  other  people's  thoughts,  even  though  the  rogues 
be  our  contemporaries.  Oh !  how  little  do  those  minds  get  out  of 
themselves,  and  what  fertile  and  heaven-breathing  prospects  do  they 
lose,  who  think  that  a  man  must  be  confined  to  the  mill-path  of  his 
o«wn  homestead,  merely  that  he  may  avoid  seeing  the  abundance  of  his 
neighbours  I  Above  all,  how  little  do  they  know  of  us  eternal, 
weekly,  and  fiemi- weekly  writers  !  We  do  not  mean  to  say  that  it  is 
not  very  pleasant  to  run  upon  a  smooth  road,  seeing  what  we  like,  and 
talking  what  we  like;  but  we  do  say,  that  it  is  pleasauter  than  all, 
when  we  are  tired,  to  hear  what  we  like,  and  to  be  lulled  with  con-* 
genial  thoughts  and  higher  music,  till  we  are  fresh  to  start  again  upon 
our  journey.  What  we  would  not  give  to  have  a  better  Examiner  and 
a  better  Indicator  than  our  own  twice  every  week,  uttering  our  own 
thoughts  in  a  finer  maniier,  and  altering  the  world  faster  and  better 
than  we  can  alter  it !  How  we  should  like  to  read  our  present  n»m- 
ber,  five  times  bettered ;  and  to  have  nothing  to  do,  for  years  and 
years,  but  to  pace  the  green  lanes,  forget  the  tax-gatherer,  and  vent 
ourselves  now  and  then  in  a  verse. 


Prinled  and  pwblislictl  hy  Joseph  Appleyard,  No.  19,  Calliorine-streef,  StrancJ. 
Pfice  2d. — Aad  sold  nlso  by  A.  Gmddon,  .Importer  oi'  SnuR>i,  No.  31,  Tavislork- 
siivet,  Covent-gnrden.  Ordtrs  received  at  the  above  places,  and  by  all  Book- 
sellers and  Newsmen. 


THE    INDICATOR, 


There  he  arriving  round  about  doth  fli?. 
And  takes  survey  with  busie  curious  eye : 
Kow  tliis,  now'that,  lie  tasteth  tenderly. 

Spenser. 


No.  XLV.—WEDNESDAY,  AUGUST  16th,  1820. 
FARINETTA   AND    FARINONNAj 

OR 

now  TO  SUK.E  FIVE  PtEASURES  OP  ONE,  AND  BE  IN  TIVE  PLACES  AT  ONeE. ' 

•  ;•   •••,■.:  ■•  . .   4  FAinr  TALEt  .,■-.. 

TuERE^vet-^  ohce  two  sisters,  who  lived  near  a  fotest  hauntecl  bj^ 
Fairies.  They  were  both  young,  handsome,  and  lively ;  only  it  was 
said  that  Farinetta  was  the  more  liked  the  more  you  knew  her,  whiles 
Farinbnna  seemed  to  get  tired  of  one  friend  after  another  like  a  toy. 
If  yoii  went  to  see  them,  Farinetta  would  keep  the  same,  face  towards^ 
you  all  day,  and  try  all  she  could  to  make  you  happy.  Farinonna' 
would  do  as  much  for  a  time,  and  be  exceedingly  pleasant ;  but  if  any 
thing  crossed  or  tired  her,  she  would  exclaim,  with  a  half  pettish  looky 
"  Well,  I've  had  quite  enough  of  this,  haven't  you  ?"  It  was  b,  l6ok, 
as  much  as  to  say,  "  If  you  haven't,  you're  a  great  fool ;  and  whether 
you  have  Or  not,  I  shall  do  something  else."  Every  one  actordifigiy 
had  their  Buts  for  Farinonfia.     They  would  say,  "  Farinonna  is  a 

handsome  girl,  but Yes,  Farinonna  Is  a  yery  handsome  girl,  but"— • 

People  had  also  their  Buts  for  Fariuetta ;  but  then  it  was  only  such 
people  as  had  too  many  Buts  of  th^ir  own.  '  •   ' 

This  difference  in  the  tempers  of  the  two  girls  was  inalnly  attri-c 
buted  to  Farinetta's  acquaintance  with  the  inhabitants  of  the  forest.^ 
She  was  the  more  thoughtful  of  the  two;  and  this  led  her  to  ihSfk** 
herself  mistress  of  the  Fairy  language,  which  was  the  only  passport 
necessary  to  a  complete,  intimacy  with  the  speakers.  Farinonna^' 
who  had  walked  in  the  forest,  yet  never  seen  any  Fairies,-  "did 
not  believe  in  them ;  and  she  used  to  laugh  at  her  sister  for  think- 
ing that  the  language  taught  her  to  see  more  in  what  she  read  and 
observed,  thah'  herself.  "  Do  you  think,"  said  she,  "  that  such  fine 
writers  as  Homer,  and  Tasso,  and  Shakspeare,  -want  any  other  key  tof 
thi^ir  language  than  their  own  ?     Do  I  not  know  a  sword  when  I  see 


354  THE  INDICATOR. 

it,  or  a  horse,  or  a  man,  or  a  dance  ?  Is  it  necessary  for  me,  wben  a 
gentlemaff  is  introduced  to  my  acquaintance,  to  keep  saying  out  loud 
the  meaning  of  the  word  gentleman  in  Fairian, — gentleman,  gentleman, 
gentleman, — like  a  great  gawky  school-girl  at  her  lesson, — in  order  to 
have  a  proper  sense  of  what  he  is  ?     Or  is  it  requisite  tiat  t" — 

'*  No,  sister,"  said  Farinetta  laughing;  "  the  power  to  tianslate  a 
word  into  Fairian  only  gives  you  a  very  vivid  sense  indeed  of  the 
beauties  of  the  original."" 

"  Oh — my  compliments  pray  to  the  very  vivid  sense,  which  appears 
to  me, — begging  your  pardon,  sister, — very  like  mighty  fine  non- 
sense. So  instead  of  saying  gentleman  out  loud  to  the  gentleman,  I  am 
to  keep  saying  to  my  very  vivid  sense  Generomildeasibol — What  is 
the  horrid  long  word  ? — ^^Generosnildeasiboldunsel — Oh — its  no  use. 
I  can't  see,  for  m-y  part,  why  it  is  not  quite  as  good  to  say  Geutleman 
at  once,  and  not  plague  one's  head  about  the  matter.  Every  one  knows 
a  gentleman  at  sight,  without  any  of  your  vivid  senses.  Do  you 
think  I  want  any  language  but  my  mother's  to  tell  me  the  meaning  of 
the  words  '  As  I'm  a  gentleman  ;'  or  to  help  me  to  a  passage  in  Shak- 
speare  or  Milton  ?", 

*'  Why  now,  sister,"'  said  Farlnetta,  "  there  was  a  passage  the  other 
day  which  was  quoted  from  Hesiod,  and  which  you  said  was  unintel- 
ligible." 

'*  Well,  I  know,"  replied  the  other  ;  "  it  is  unintelligible ;  and 
would  remain  so  were  it  translated  into  all  the  languages  in  Europe," 

*'  No,"  said  Farinetta ;  "  if  you  could  speak  Fairian,  you  would 
see  it  has  a  meaning,  and  one  of  the  finest  in  the  world." 

'*  Now  there,  sister,"  returned  Farinonna  colouring,  ''you  really 
make  me  angry*  It  doesn't  follow  that  because  a  man's  name  is  Ile- 
siod,  he  could  not  say  a  silly  thing.  Wise  men  say  silly  things  some- 
times, and  Sfl  might  he,  for  all  he  was  a  beardy  old  Greek.  I'm  sure 
he  did  a  foolish  thing,  when  he  let  his  brother  cheat  him  of  half  his 
estate;  and  I  ca«not  see  tliat  he  proved  his  wits  a  bit  better,  by  add- 
ing that  he  was  contented,  because  forsooth  '  the  half  was  greater  than 
the  whole.'  The  half  greater  than  the  whole !  Is  half  this  fan  greater 
than  the  whole  ?  Or  half  this  peach  ?  Or  half  the  lawn  there  I  Or 
half  a  dinner,  my  dear  j  which  will  be  tip  in  a  quarter  of  an  hour^and 
I'm  prodigiously  hungry. 

*'  Yes,"  said  Farinetta,  laughing  as  good-naturedly  as  before,  '■^  half 
a  dinner  is  greater  than  the  whole,  on  many  occasions.  I  tell,  you 
what  now"  (for  she  saw  her  sister  getting  more  impati^ent) : — ''  you 
k^pw  the  flowers  which  the  Fairy  gave  me," 

)  *'  Yes,  I  do.  Chuck  half  of  them  away,  and  sec  whether  the  rest 
will  be  doubled."  • 

"  No,  sister,  that  is  not  the  way  of  doubling  in  Fairy-land.  But 
since  you  admired  them  so  yesterday,  I. intended  one  half  for  ypuy  and 
there  they  are  in  the  window." 

"  Well— that's  a  good,  kind,  generous  sister  as  everlived ;  but  hey  I 
presto  1_  w'hy  don't  the  others  double."  '■'. 

"They  do,"  said  Farinqtt*.-   '^I  feci  a  double  perfume  from,  them : 


THE  INDICATOR.  355 

I  see  a  double  red  In  the  roses,  and  a  double  fairness  in  the  lilies.  And 
what  istnore,  I  shall  see  your  flowers  when  they  ha.ve  gone  out  of  the 
room."  *    •.    ':  'k 

"  Oh,"  returned  Farinonna,  "  I  forgot  that  the  knowledge  of  Fai* 
rian  was  to  double  one's  eyesight,  as  well  as  one's  knowledge.  I  sup- 
pose it  doubles  one's  presence  too  ?"        , 

"  VVhy,  it  might  as  well,  ssstcr,"sald  Farinetta,  "  while  its  about 
it;  and  it  does  accordingly." 

"  Sister,  sister,"  re-iterated  the  other,  with  a  reddening  gravity,  and 
forgetting  her  flowers  in  her  impatience; — "  you  know  I  love  you; 
for  the  truth  is  you  are  very  generous,  and  when  you  don't  take  these 
freaks  into  your  head,  very  sensible.  But  the  more  I  love  you,  the 
more  angry  you  make  me  at  seeing  you  let  yourself  be  so  imposed 
upon  by  this  nonsense  about  Fairies.  Do  you  think  one's  common 
senses  are  to  be  deceived^  Why,  upon  this  principle  of  a  double 
presence,  you  -ought  yourself  to  be  able  to  be  in  five  or  six  places  at 
once,  enjoying  yourself." 

"  My  dear  sister,"  said  Farinetta  with  a  pleasant  earnestness,  ^'  give 
me  a  kiss,  and  don't  spoil  your  beautiful  mouth.  You  see  that  new 
gown  of  mine,  worked  ^11  over  with  curious  imagery.  I  say  nothing 
to  you  but  what  I  wiW  prove, — this  v-ery  evening,  if  you  please  ; — but 
if  I  do  certain  things,  and  then  pat  on  that  Faney-Dress,  I  can  be  ia 
five  or  six  places  at  once,  and  enjoy  myself  in  all.  I  will  give  away, 
for 'instance,  half  the  peaches  off  my  best  tree,  send  them  in  portions 
to  five  or  six  of  your  friends  and  mine,  and  go  the  same  day  and  enjoy 
them  with  every  one." 

Farinonna  wept  outright  at  this  assertion,  partly  with  impatience, 
partly  at  her  sister's  -being  so  extravagant,  and  partly  from  a  lurking 
notion  how  sitiyand  uninformed  she  must  be  herself,  if  all  this  were 
true.  After  a  variety  ©f  "Pshaws  !  Nonsenses  !  and  Now  Positivelys ! 
the  upshot  was,  that  she  agreed  to  let  her  sister  make  the  experiment, 
and  to  write  letters  to  the  receivers  of  the  fruit  all  round,  in  order  to 
see  what  they  would  say  in  answer.  ,"  But  then,"  said  she,  recollect- 
ing herself,  ^'  supposing  this  impossibility  of  yours  to  be  possible,  we 
shall  not  have  half  tJie  peacltes  we  should  =have  had,  to  eat  for  the  next 
fortnight:— that,  will  be  very  foolish."  "Well,  but  dear  Nonna, 
for  the  sake  af  the  experimen^,  you  know." — "  Well,  well,  for 
the  sake  of  the  experiment" —  So  half  laughing,  and  half  blushing  at 
being  so  ridiculous,  Farinonna  helped  her  sister  to  put  the  peaches 
in  green  leaves  and  baskets,  and  send  them  ofi"  with  their  several  letters. 
Fariuetta  then  put  on  her  fancy-dress,  and  saying 

•l^airiee,  Fairies,  wise  and  dear, 
Send  me  tliere  and  keep  me  here, 

sat  down  very  quietly  at  the  window,  to  the  equal  amusement  of  her- 
self and  her  sister;  of  the  latter  for  seeing  her  still  remain  where  she 
was,  and  of  the  former  for  seeing  the  amusement  of  the  latter.  • 

Farine(ta,  though  the  more  thoughtful  of  the  two,  had  as  much  or 
mtjire  animal  spirit  oiicasionally ;  and  she  entertained  herself  exoes- 


356  THE  INDICATOR. 

-7 
jSvely  in  tlie  course  of  tlio  cvenlns;  with  her  sister's  extreme  watchfuU 
ness  over  her.  The  latter,  knowing  the  other's  love  of  truth,  and  see- 
ing her  at  once  so  confident  and  so  merry,  began  to  have  a  confused 
and  almost  fearful  notion  tha.t  there  was  more  in  the  business  than  she 
fancied.  *'  Perhaps,!'  thought  she,  as  the  dusk  of  the  evening  gathered 
in,  and  she  recollected  the  ghost-stories  of  her  childhood,  "  these 
Fairies  are  evil  spirits  who  have  put  a  phantom  here  in  my  sister's 
shape  ;"  and  creeping  towards  her  with  as  much  courage  as  she  could 
inuster,  she  put  forth  her  trembling  hand,  and  touched  her.  Farinetta 
guessed  what  she  was  thinking  about,  and  burst  into  a  iit  of  laughter. 
This  set  the  other  off  too,  a,nd  they  both  laughed  till  the  room  rang 
again,  the  one  at  her  sister's  fears,  and  the  other  at  her  own. 

Farinonna,  all  that  evening,  walked  about  with  her  sister,  sat  with 
hcT,  talked  with  her,  played  music  with  her,  sung  with  her,  laughed 
with  her,  nay,  was  silent  and  looked  grave  with  her  ;  and  at  last,  went 
to  bed  with  her.  She  would  not  suffer  her  out  of  her  sight.  '*  Ti^ 
plain  flesh  and  blood,  you  goose,"  said  Farinetta,  seeing  the  other 
look' wistfully  at  her  hand,  which  she  jerked  against  her  cheek  as  she 
spoke.  ^'  So  is  this,  for  that  matter,''  said  Farinonna,  and  was 
peevishly  lifting  her  own  to  give  her  sister  a  little  harder  smack,  when 
It  suddenly  smote  herself  on  the  cheek.  "  My  dear  sister  l"  ex- 
claimed the  other  gravely,  and  at  the  same  time  embracing  her, — ■ 
^^  Thank  you  for  that.  You  were  angry  with  yourself  for  intending 
me  a  little  bit  of  a  twinge,  and  so  resolved  to  let  it  recoil  on  your  own 
eh^ek.  I  hail  the  omen."  "  Hail  the  omen  1"  cried  her  sister,  half  in 
alarm,  and  half  angry  :  "  I  did  feel  a  little  as  you  say,  but  I  as-» 
^ure  you  I'  know  not  by  what  odd  sort  of  palsy  or  convulsion  I  gave 
Uiyself  a  blow."  "  Enough  t"  returned  Farinetta,  embracing  her  still 
more  warmly:  "  I  see  how  it  is  :  the  Fairies  have  begun  with  you  : 
you  will  know  and  love  them  soon."  So  saying,  she  blessed  her.  and 
,went  to  sleep.  Enougli !  thought  Farinonna,  rubbing  her  cheek  ;  but  x  i 
«he  kept  silent,  and  shortly  after  dropped  asleep  too. 

The  next  moraing  the   answers  to  the  letters    were  brought  \o 
Farinonna  aM  at  once.     She  snatched  them  from  the  servant's  hand, 
exclaiming  "  Now  then  !  "  A  good  phrase,"  said  Farinetta,  "  that  same 
Now  then: — you  will  believe  in  another  presently, — Here  there.'' 
It  was  true  enough.     The  first  letter  ran  as  follows  :-— 

Deau  Fakinonna,-^— What  do  you  mean  by  asking  ivJief her  your 
sister  was  with  us  yes.terday  ?  To  be  sure  she  was.  She  joined  us 
"during  the  desert,  in  her  beautiful  fancy-dress,  and  was  the  merriest 
among  the  party.     Didn't  she  tell  you  ? 

Yours,  L.Y. 

Letter  the  second  :— 

Dear  Fai^inonna, — What  Ixas  come  to  you  ?  Your  sister  told  us 
at  the  desert  yesterday,  that  she  had  just  parted  with  you.  Her  fancy- 
dress  and  her  peaches  were  the  admiration  of  us  all.  Tou  would  have 
thought  we  should  devour  one  as  we  did  the  other.  1  am  l«-arning 
Fairiau,  Yours,  B.  11. 


THE  INDICATOR,  »m 

The  third  letter  u?as  from  a  fine  lady  ;-^ 

My  nEAR  .Creature— Was  ever  such  a  whimsical  being  as  thou  ? 
Why  thou  dear  giddy  thing,  one  would  think  that  you  had  not  seen 
your  sister  for  ages,  just  as  we  have  not  seen  you.  It's  a  w-eek  now,  I 
declare,  since?  Monday.  I  die  to  see  you.  Dwj't  you  die  to  have  a 
fancy-dress  like  your  sister's  ?  I  do.  I  quite  die.  f  die  to  learij. 
Fairian  on  purpose:  only  it's  so  hard,  they  tell  me.  Lord!  Here  is 
a  quantity  of  Dies  :  Well — you  must  have  another,  for  do  you  know 
Lady  Di  said  she  blushed  for  me  yesterday  ;  upon  which  that  witty 
thing  Lady  Bab  said,  loud  enough  for  her  to  hear,  "  And  the  paint  fol* 
her  Ladyship."  Wasn't  that  good  now?  Quite  charming.  If  Lady 
Bab  were  but  good  looking,  she  would  be  quite  charming.  Excuse 
faults  and  all  that. 
'  Yours  ever,  my  love,  G.  F. 

ji  ,,The  fourth  was  from  Lady  Bab  : — 

.  Pretty  One, — "  Divinest"  was  with  us  yesterday,  looking,  I  really 
must  say,  like  her  name,  in  her  fancy-dress.  I  only  think  it  a  little 
too  crowded  with  imagery,  to  look  quite  reasonable.  How  came  yoa 
not  to  know  ?  I  thought  I  heard  her  say  she  had  just  seen  you,  buit 
that  doll  Lady  Di  and  that  stupid  pretender  Mrs.  F.  were  gabbling 
away  at  the  time.  Brilliante  will  tell  you,  she  says,  that  I  sported  one 
of  my  best  things  yesterday  ;  but,  entre  nous^  it  was  not  very  happy, 
I  think;  at  least  not  so  happy  as  many  foolish  things  I  said  the  day 
bx^fore.  But  "I'm  tired,"  as  you  say.  They  are  all  threatening  to 
learn  Fairian,  so  I  must  get  it  up  in  mere  self-defence.  Is  not  this  hard 
upon  one  who  has  taken  the  trouble  to  know  all  the  genteel  languages 
already,  and  who  is,  dear  Pretty-Protty, 

Your  obedient  humble  servant,  B.  Q. 

*'  An  affected  ill-natured  thing!"  said  Farinonna,  *'  I  wonder 
'what  she  always  takes  the  liberty  of  calling  me  Pretty-Protty  for  ?  I 
think  I  see  her  odious  puckered  mouth  grunting  it.  What  next?  Oh, 
here's  poor  Trady." 

'  Dear  Madam,— Received  yours  of  to-day.  Saw  your  sister.  a,s 
hope  3  ou  did  afterM'ards  ;  for  she  had  the  iinest  fancy-dress  on  I  ever 
saw,  much  better  than  Miss  Jones's,  and  Miss  Jones's  was  the  jSnest 
ever  seen.  Excuse  running  hand,  not  having  time  to  write  text. 
Should  like  to  know,  if  you  have  time  to  write,  why  you  ask  about 
Miss  Farinetta,  as  she  said  she  saw  you  ;  but  suppose  she  was  mis- 
taken. Excuse  haste.  Also^  blots;  ajid  the  yvay  of  writing  the  letter 
7,  which  Miss  Jones  says  is  best. 

I  have  the  honour  to  be,  dear  Madam, 

Your  very  obedient  and  humble  servant,  A.  T, 

y   f*.  S. — Miss  Jones  lives  next  door. 

*' What  a  pack  of  nonsense  about  Miss  Jones,"  said  Farinonna: 
."  I've  no  patience  with  such  stupid  worship  of  nobody.  Ah,  here's 
^'ar  Toady's  hand. 


tm  THE  INDICATOR. 

DiriNEST,— Other  Divin«8t  was  with  us  yesterday,  shaiing  her 
peaches  with  us,  and  looking  really  celestial  in  her  fancy-dress.  She 
reminded  me  so  of  you,  that  I  quite  longed  to  see  you.'  Why  didn't 
you  come  ?  And  why,  pray,  do  you  write  to  know  about  your  sister, 
after  having  just  seen  her  ?  That  is  what  we  all  want  to  know  ;  but 
you  know  it  is  no  new  matter  to  want  to  know  every  thing  which  you 
do,  however  Whimsical  and  witty.  Adieu,  Divinest!  Pray  learn  Fai- 
rian,  and  get  the  dear  delightful  creatures  in  the  wood  to  get  you  an 
Imagination, — for  so,  you  must  know,  we  call  Farinetta's  dress  on 
■account  of  its  imagery.  All  the  world  is  beginning  to  believe  in  'em. 
We  don't  quite  understand  about  it.  The  mixture  of  such  odd  things 
fls  language  and  knowledge,  being  here  and  being  there,  &c.  confuses 
one^  but  I've  no  doubt  it's  true,  because  they  say  so.  However,  I 
shall  n^ever  learn  Fairian  myself,  that's  certain,  because  you  know  I'm 
such  a  lazy  creature.  And  entre  nous,  ma  belle,  I've  another  reason, 
which  is,  that  I  am  quite  happy  and  contented  as  long  as  I  can  see  such 
places  as  Green  Bower,  and  the  fairer  than  fairies  that  live  in  it. 
Adieu,  adieu  !  Parting  is  such  sweet  sorrow,  &c.  Mille  graces  for 
your  kind  present  of  the  box.  Believe  me  to  be  your  ever  obliged 
and  affectionate  friend,  with  esteem,  E.  T. 

P.  S.  I  shall  come  to  spend  a  day  or  two  next  week  at  Green  Bower ; 
but  don't  get  any  thing  particular,  there's  a  love, 

Farinonna  was  now  as  imputient  in  her  wish  to  enjoy  the  privileges 
of  her  sister,  as  she  had  been  in  doubting  and  contradicting  her.  She 
had  heard  the  latter  say,  that  the  first  and  greatest  step  towards  obtain- 
ing them,  was  a  good  hearty  will ;  and  that  instances  had  been  known, 
in  which  it  superseded  all  the  other  means,  and  gifted  the  wisher  with 
the  power  of  speaking  Fairian  at  once.'  She  therefore  borrowed  her 
sister's  manuscript  grammar,  and  blushing,  asked  her  to  lend  her  the 
^own  too.  Farinetta  guessed  what  she  was  going  to  do ;  but  said 
iiothin_g.  She  only  kissed  her  very  kindly,  and  gave  them  her.  Fa- 
rinonna hurried  up  into  her  room,  locked  the  door,  threw  the  grammar 
on  the  floor,  slipped  on  the  gown,  and  cried  out  as  fast  as  she  could, 
*'  I  want  to  be  in  five  places  at  once."  However,  she  did  not  find 
herself  any  where  else.  "  I  want,  I  say,"  cried  she,  stamping  her  foot 
angrily,  "  to  be  in  five  places  at  once."  Not  a  step  did  she  budge. 
Enraged  at  her  disappointment,  she  began  to  tear  off  the  gown;  when 
lo  !  for  every  rent  which  she  made  in  it,  she  hit  herself  a  great  thump 
In  the  face.  She  wept  bitter  tears  for  fear  and  vexation.  She  did  not 
dare  to  exclaim  that  it  was  shameful  to  treat  a  person  so  ;  but  she 
thought  it,  and  Avished  she  coxild  smack  the  Fairies' faces  all  round. 
Suddenly,  she  recollected  that  her  sister  called  that  involuntary  self- 
punishment  a  good  omen  3  and  this  recollection  brought  to  mind 
another,  namely,  that  one  of  the  first  steps  towards  favour  with  the 
Fairies  was  to  do  something  not  entirely  for  yourself,  but  for  some- 
body else  too.  "  1  will  give  away  half  my  box  of  sweetmeats," 
cried  she,  clapping  her  hands.  She  put  half  of  them  accordingly  into 
another  box,  thrust  the  lid  td^  threw  up  the  window^  and  called  out  to 


THE  INDICATOR.  ?5f 

a  little  boy  who  was  going  by,  "  Hallo,- there,  little  boy  1"  The  child 
looked  up,  and  gaped.  "  There's  a  box  of  sweetmeats  for  you,  little 
boy."  The  boy  looked  at  the  box,  as  if  doubtfully,  and  then  looking 
up  at  the  young  lady,  gaped  again.  "  Don't  staud  gaping  there,  yoo, 
ninny,"  said  Farinonna  t  "  take  up  the  box,  and  go  and  eat  the  sweet- 
meats directly.  I'll  come  and  eat  'em  with  you  presently.  There, 
go  : — make  haste  ; — make  haste,  I  say."  "  Where,  Ma'am  ?"  asked 
t,he  boy,  after  taking  up  the  box.  "  Any  where,  you  dolt,"  said  Fari- 
nonna, slamming  down  the  window.  "  Now  then,"  cried  she,  "  I 
shall  do  it.  Oh,  I  forgot  the  charm  before  : — I  shall  do  it  certainly, 
now  ;"  and  she  half-said  and  half-sung,  in  the  Requisite  manner. 

Fairies,  Fairies,  wise  and  dear, 

Send  me  there,  and  keep  me  here.  '    '  ..';..: 

jFnr.  ;f,;->f  f^-A^^   '...■•..  ^  ..^frjal 

Not  a  jot  did  they  send  her  any  where.  Farinonna  was  bewildered^ 
"  The  sweetmeats  perhaps,"  said  she,  were  not  valuable  enough,  I'll 
give  away  half — what  ?  let's  see — any  thing  valuable — oh,  my  shelf  of 
books  ;  I'll  give  away  half  my  shelf  of  books."  She  rang  the  bell  vio- 
lently, a!\d  the  old  deaf  housekeeper  appeared :  "  Lord  bless 
\io  I"  said  the  good  old  dame,  "  why,  what's  the  matter  with  my 
young  lady  ;  I  heard  the  bell  ring,  and  I  should  never  forget  the 
sound  of  that  bell.  Ma'am,  if  I  was  to  live  a  hundred" — "  Ay,  ay,", 
^aid  Farinonna,  "  Well,  never  mind  what  you  shall  never  forget ;  but 
here- — take  these  valuable  books,  Judith,  and  keep  ''em,  and  read  'em, 
and — there,  go."  Judith,  not  hearing  a  word,  bent  her  ear.  to  under- 
stand the  orders.  "  Take. these?  valuable  books,"  bawled  Farinonna, 
^'  and  keep  'em,  and  read  'em,  and  go."  She  uttered  the  last  word  so 
fiercely,  that  the  good  old  gossip  started  with  another  "  Lord  bless^ 
us  !"  muttering  after  her,  "  Keep  'em,  and  read  ^em,  and  go  1  Why, 
Lord,  Miss,  how  am  I  to  read  'em."  "  They  cost  I  don't  know  how 
much,"  answered  Farinonna.  "  But  how  am  I  to  understand  'em  ?" 
returned  Judith.  "  They  are  bound  in  morocco,"  bawled  the  lady, 
*'  But  I  tell  you,  dear  Miss  Nonna,  I  can't  read  ;  and  what's  more,  I 
can't  hear  any  body  read  ;  and  what's  more,  I"  -  -  "  Then  give  'em 
somebody  who  can,"  interrupted  the  sister,  ''  Give  'em  !"  cried  Ju- 
dith, doubting  her  ears;  "give  'em  who!"  "Anyone,"  shouted 
Farinonna ;  "  and  "tell  'em,  I'll  come  and  read  'em  with  'em  di- 
rectly.'' "  Read  'em  with  'em,"  repeated  the  housekeeper.  "  Why, 
you  would  not  read  'em  with  the  cook,  or  the  hostler,  or  the  footman, 
orthe  scullion,  would  you.  Miss?"  "Mark  me,  Judith,"  said  Farj- 
;nonna,  suppressing  her  anger  j  "  Take  those  books  to  my  sister,  and 
tell  her" — "  Mister  who  ?"  asked  the  deaf  woman;  "  My  sister,"  re- 
echoed the  young  lady  ;  "and  tell  her,  that  she  must  read  'em  di- 
rectly, because  I  want  to  stop  here  and  read  'em  there ;  and  now 
go  ; — You  can  go,  can't  you,  if  you  can't  do  any  thing  else  ?"  ''  Ob, 
yes,"  returned  the  dame,  proudly,  "  I  can  go.  Blessed  be  heaven,  I 
can  go  fast  enough,  considering  I'm  seventy-eight ;  but  I  tell  you  what. 
Miss  Nonna,  if  you  take  infirm  old  people  by  the  shoulders  in  this 
manner,  and  make  'em  go  faster  thaa  Heaven  wills,  you'tl  not  live  to 


866  T^E  INMOATOR. 

he  old  yours(4f ;  and  now  I'm  in  the  mind,  I  tell  you  what,  Miss  Fa- 
rinonrva;  and  I'll  tell  you  nothing  bat  what  all  the  house  says;  and 
that  is,  1  don't  know  what  you  mean  by  these  mad  pranks,  but  you 
Ai'e  not  a  bit  like  your  sister,  for  all  you're  almost  as  handsome  ;  and 
I  don't  love  you  half  so  well  as  Idid,  Heaven  forgive  your  mother'* 
©Id  nurse  for  saying  so !"  (and  she  shed  tears)  "  for  all  I  dandled  you 
in  these  arms  •  for  one  of  your  kindest  things  (wh6n  you  do  'em)  a'nt 
the  Talue  of  any  thing  that  Miss  Netta  does,  she  does  every  thing  so 
Sweetly  and  good-natured.  You  trample  upon  us,  as  a  body  may  say, 
eyen  when  you  help  us  to  get  up  ;  but  kind's  kind,  I  say  ;  and  a  man 
may  ride  from  here  to  Land's  End,  and  be  no  horseman  ;-^^yes,  no 
horseman,  Miss  Nonna  ;  and,  I  grieve  to  say  it,  but  you're  no  horse- 
man." 

Farinonna,  who  had  a  turn  for  the  ludicrous,  aod  who  was  noj; 
naturally  bad  hearted  (who  is?),  could  neither  help  smiling  at  nor 
pitying  her  old  nurse,  as  she  went  out  of  the  room  lamenting  over  anct 
over  again,  that  so  sweet  a  creature  to  look  at  was  no  horseman.  The 
honest,  involuntary  ebullition  had  an  effect  on  her,  which  even  her. 
sister's  sweetness  would  have  failed  in,  and  which  certainly  no  grave  ad- 
vice would  have  produced.  She  sat  dpwn  with  a  feeling  of  shame  antF 
regret ;  and  after  a  while  exclaimed  gently,  "  I  see  I  must  be  patient, 
and  leai-n  Fairian  regularly,  or  I  shall  never  be  like  my  dear  sister.'* 
Kow  the  latter,  who  had  been  alarmed  by  old  Judith,  and  just  come 
ki,  turned  her  sister's  head  round  affectionately  with  her  two  hands, 
and  said,  "  Ah,  my  dear  Nonna,  you  will  be  a  greater  favourite  with 
the  Fairies  thart  I,  if  you  keep  in  this  mind  ;  for  I  was  lesa  strong  than 
^ou,  and  was  tnade  patient  earlier,  and  you  will  have  had  more  to 
conquer."  So  saying,  she  kissed  the  tears  out  of  her  eyes.  Fari- 
nonna took  Tier  sister's  hand,  and  kissed  it ;  and  looking  up,  she.  saw 
a  group  of  beautiful  creatures  in  the  room,  who  stood  like  friends 
about  her  sister,  and  smiled  upon  herself';  and  one  of  them  sard,  in 
the  most  enchanting  manner  in  the  world,  *'  To  be.  able  to  See  us,  is 
to  be  able  to  hope  every  thing." 


Ji'tfi; 


Prihied  ffnd  piiWislied  by  Joseph  Appleyard,  No.  19,  'Callierine-sfreef,  Strand, 
;  Price  2d. — And  sold  also  by  A.  Gliddon,  Tmporler  of  SniifT*,  No.  31,  Ttrvistook'- 
,   sii'i»et,  Covenl-gatden.     Orders  received  at  the  above  places,  and  by  all  Boek- 
sellers  and  Newsmeu. 


THE    INDICATOR. 

There  he  arriving  round  about  doth  flif, 
4nd  takes  survey?  with  busie  curious  eye: 
Now  this,  now  that,  he  tasteth  tenderly. 

SpENSEll. 


No.  XLVI.— WEDNESDAY,  AUGUST  23d,  1820. 


COACHES. 


According  to  the  opinion  commonly  entertained  respecting  ant 
atfthor^s  want  of  ready  money,  it  may  be  allowed  us  to  say  that  we 
retain  from  childhood  a  considerable  notion  of  "  a  ride  in  a  coach." 
Nor  do  we  hesitate  to  confess,  that  by  coach,  we  especially  mean  a 
hired  one  ;  from  the  equivocal  rank  of  the  post-chaise,  down  to  that 
df spised  old  cast-away,  the  hackney. 

It  is  true,  that  the  carriage,  as  it  is  indifferently  called  (as  if  nothing 
less  genteel  could  carry  any  one)  is  a  more  decided  thing  than  the 
chaise ;  it  may  be  swifter  even  than  the.  mail,  leaves  the  stage  at  a  still 
greater  distance  in  every  res{»ect,  and  (forgetting  what  it  may  come  to 
itself)  darts  by  the  poor  old  lumbering  hackney  with  immeasurable 
contempt.  It  rolls  with  a  prouder  ease,  than  any  other  vehicle.  It 
is  full  of  cushions  and  comfort ;  elegantly  colbured  inside  and  out ; 
rich;  y^t  n^;  light  and  rapid,  yet  substantial.  The  horses  seem 
proud  to  draw  it.  The  fat  and  fair-wigged  coachman  "lends  his. 
sounding  lash,"  his  arm  only  in  action  and  that  little,  his  body  well- 
set  with  lts^)ftj(!rA  weight.  The  footman,  in  the  pride  of  his  non-cha- 
lance,  holdifig  by  the  straps  behind,  and  glancing  down  sideways  be- 
twixt his  cocked-hat  and  neckcloth,  stands  swinging  from  east  to  west 
upon  his  springy  toes^.-  The  horses  rush  along  amidst  their  glancing 
harness.  Spotted  dogs  leap  about  them,  barking  with  a  princely  super- 
fluity of  noise.  The  hammercloth  trembles  through  all  its  fringe.  The 
paint  flashes  in  the  sun.  We,  contemptuous:  of  every  thing  less  con- 
venient, bow  backwards  and  forwards  with  a  certain  indifferent  air  of 
gentility,  infinitely  predominant.  Suddenly,  with  a  happy  mixture  of 
turbulence  and  truth,  the  carriage  dashes  up  by  the  curb-stone  to  the 
very  point  desired,  and  stops  with  a  lordly  wilfulness  of  decision. 
The  coachman  looks  as  if  nothing  had  happened.  The  footman  is 
down  in  an  instant ;  the  knocker  reverberates  into  the  farthest  comer 
€»f  the  house ;  doors,  both  carriage  and  house,  are  open ;— we  descend,  [ 
cjasting  a  matter-of-course  eye  at  the  bye-standers ;  and  the  moment- 
we  touch  the  pavement,  the  vehicle,  as  if  conscious  of  what  it  has  car- 
ried, and  relieved  from  the  weight  of  our  importance,  recoTCK  from 


361  THE  INDICATOR. 

it's  sidelong  inclination  with  a  jerk,  tossing  and  panting,  as  U  were, 
for  very  breath,  like  the  proud  heads  of  the  horses. 

All  this,  itflaust  beown^ed,-  is  very  pve^y,;  but  it  i^  al§<j£outy  and 
superfluous. .  It  is>tao  convenieat,— too  QKaclang,---toQ  excljisive.  We 
must  get  too  much  for  it,  and  lose  too  much  by  it.  Its  plenty,  as 
Ovid  says,  makes  us  poon.  .We  neither  hay;e.it.ia  the  republic  of  let- 
ters, nor  would  desire  it  in  any  less  Jacobinical- stater  Horses,  as  many 
as  you  please,  provided  men  have  enough  to  eat: — hired  coaches,  a 
reasonable  number  : — but  health  and  good-humour  at  all  events. 

Gigs  and  curricles  are  things  less  objectionable,  because  they  cannot 
be  so  relied  upon  as  substitutes  for  exercise.  Our  taste  in  them,  we 
must  confess,!  ifn6t  genu-ihrt.'  Hov^  shaU/VKe  pwn  it.  ?  .W^  like  to  be 
driven,  instead  of  drive  ; — to  read  or  look  about  us,  instead  of  keep- 
ing watch  on  a  horse's  head.  We  have  no  relish  even  for  vehicles  of 
this  description,  that  are  not  safe.  Danger  is  a  good  thing  for  giving  a 
fillip  to  a  man's  ideas ;  bat  even  danger',  (to  jis,  must  come  recommended 
by  something  useful.  We  have  no  ambition  to  have  Tandem  written 
on  oiir  tombstone.'' "'•■•'^•^    t'ca  ';..■, -j    ::.i:i!:i-»      jf'    :.'.:■■:;,  to      A 

.The  prettiest  of'these  Vehicles. is  undoubtedly  the  curricle,  which  h' 
alsb  the  skfest. '  There  is  Sotnethirig  worth'  looking  at  in  the  pair  of 
hbrSes,  with  that  sparkling  pole  of  ^teel  laid  across  them.  It  is  like  a 
bar  of  Toiusic,  comprising  .their  'harmonious  course.  But  to  us,  even 
gigs,  are  but  a  sort  of  unsuccessful  run  at  gentility.  The  driver,  to  all  ' 
intents  and  purposes,  had  better  be  on  the  horSe.  Horseback  is  the 
nflbleSt  Way  of  being-  caj;ried  in  the  -world.  It  is  cheaper  than  any 
other 'constant  .mbde  of  riding;  it  is  common  to  all  ranks;  and  it  is 
rdanl)'',  graceful,. and  healthy-.  The  handsomest  mixture  of  danger  with 
dignify,  in'the  sha.pe  of  a  carriage,  was  the  tall-  phaeton  with  its  yellow 
wings; ,  We  remeiiiber  looking  up  to  it  with  respect  in  our  childhood, 
partly  for  its  own  loftiness,'  partly  for  its  name,  and  partly  perhaps 
for, th^  figure  it  makes  itt  the  prints  to  novels  of  that- period.  The 
most  gallant  figurte  which  mere*  modern  driving  ever  cut,  was  in  the 
person  tof  a  late  Duke  of  Hamilton  ;  of  whom  we  have  read  oc  heard 
somewhere,  .that  he  used  to  dksh  round  the  streets  of  Roitte^  with  hi» 
horSes  panting,  aqd  his  hounds  barking  about  his  phaeton^lH  the  equal 
fright  and  a'dmi ration' of  the  Masters  of  the  Warld,  who  were  accus- 
tomed to  witness  npthing  hiigher  than  a  lumbering  old  coach  or  a  car- 
dinal on  a  riiule. ';'/, '■  -";  -  J  _^f'- i-»'-l  ;■<•■•'*'  -^  •  V  ■'_^' ■"'■'•■'' t  '  ;'  '_■ 
'A  post-chaise  involves  the  idea'oftrAYellipg^- which  in -the  Company 
p7  those  we  io.te  is  Home  in  motion.  The'  smooth  running  along  the 
rioad,  thfe.  fresh  air,  the  variety  of  scene,  the  leafy  roads,  the  bursting 
prospects,  (he  clattet  through  a  town,  the  gaping  gaze  of  a  village,  the 
hearty  appetite,  the'J'e}sai'e'(your  chaise  waiting  only  upon  your  own 
movements)  j  ey.enthfe  little  ,cpritradi,ction«  to  home-comfort  and  the 
expe'dients  upon  which  they  set  ns,  -all  put  the  animal  spirits  at  work, 
and  throw  a  novelty  bver  the  rOad  oflife.  If  any  thing  couldgrind  us 
young  agaipjit 'would  be  the  wheels  of  a  post-chaise.  The  only  mono- 
tonous sight  is,  the  perpetual  up-iarid-down  movem^ot  of  the  postillion, 
who,  we  wish' exceedirigly,:COuld  take  a  chair.  ^  His'occagional  retreat 
tb  the  bar  which  occupies  the  place  of  a  box,  and  his  aiffecting  tqsit 


THE  INDICATOR.  363 

upon  it,  only  reminds  us  of  its  exquisite  want  of  accommodation.  But 
some  have  given  the  bar,  lately,  a  surreptitious  squeeze  in  the  middle; 
and  flattened  it.a  little  into  something  obliquely  resembling  an  incon- 
venient seat. 

If  we  are  to  believe  the  merry  Columbus  of  Down-Hall,  calashes, 
now  almost  obsolete  for  any'purposej  used  to  be  hired 'for  travelling 
occasions  a  hundred  years  back ;;  but  he  preferred  a  chariot;  and 
neither  was  goo'd.  But  see  how  pleasantly  good-humour  rides  over  its 
inconveniences.  •     '    '  ■  '  '  ' 

Then  answered  'Squire  Morley,  »'  Pray  get  a  calash. 

That  in  summer  may  burn,  an4  in  winter  may  splash  ; 

I  love  dirt  and  dust ;  and  'lis  always  my  pjeasur^ 

To  take  with,  me  much  of  the  soil  that  I  measure." 

But  Matthew  thought  belter ;  for  MatiliBw  thought  right, 
And  hired  a  chariot  so  trim  and  so  light,  •.       .     '...■ 
That  extremes  both  ^of  winter  and  summer  might  pass  ; 
For  ione  window  was  canvas,  the  other  was  glass. 

"  Draw  up,"  quoth  fripnd  Matthew  ;  «'  Pull  down,"  quoth  friend  John, 
"  We  shall  be  both  hotter  and  colder  anprv."     ,      ,        ,       . 
Th\is,  talking  aj)d  scolding,  they  forwa;-d  did  speed  ; 
And  jlalplio  paced  by  under  Newman  the  Swede. 

Into  an  old  inn  did  this  Sqnipage'  rcfU, 
Ala  town  they  call  Hpdson,  the  sign  of  the  Bull  ; 
Near  a  nymph  with  an  .urn  that  divides  the  highway, 
And  into  a  puddle  throws  mother  of  tea. 

^*  Come  here,  my  sweet  laridladyi  pray  how  d'ye  do  ? 
'Where  is  Cicely  so  cleanly,  and  Prudence,  and  Sue? 
And  where  is  the  widow  that  dwelt  here  below  ? 
And  the  hostler  that  song  about  eight  year*  ago  ? 

And  where  is  your  sister,  so  mild  a'nd  sb  d^ar, 
•    )Whose  voice  to  her.  maids  like  a  trumpet  was  clear  ?" 

•'  By  my  troth,"  shereplies,  ^'  you,  grow  younger,  I  think  : 

And  pray.  Sir,  what  wine  does.the  gentlen^an  drink?.  .,. 

Why  i)ow  let  me  die.  Sir,  or  live  upon  trust, .  .'  , 

If  I  know  to  which  question  to  answer  you  first : 

Why  things,  since  I  saw  you,  most  strangely  have  varied, 

The  hostler,  is  hanged,  and  the  widow  is  mprried.. 

Atid  Prue  left  a  child  fo^  the  parisIiUp  nurse. 

And  Cicely  went  off  with  a  geiijtleman's. purse; 

And  as  to  my  sister,  so  mild  and  so  dear. 

She  has  lain  in  the  church-yard  full  many  a  year." 

■  "  Well;  peace  to  her  ash6S  !    What  signifies  grief? 
'  She  roasted  red  veal,  and  she  powdered  lean  beef: 

Full  nicely^sheknew  tp  cook  up  a.fimq  dJsh  ; 

Nor  lough  were  her  puUejs,  and  tender  her  fish." 

■  Prior. 

This  quotation  remiods  us  of  a  little  poem  by  the  same  author,  en- 
titled the  Secretary,  which  as  it  is  short,  and  runs.upon  chaise-wheels, 
iiind  seems  to  have  slipped  the  notice  it  deserves,  we  will  do  ourselv,es 

■  the  pleasure  of  extracting  also.  It  was  written  when  he  was  Secretary 
of  Embassy  at  the  Hague,  where  he  seems  to  have  edified  the  P^tch 
with  his  insisting  upon  enjoying  himself.    The  astonishment Avith: which 

'  the  good  Hollander  and  his  wife  look,  up  to  him  as  he  rides,  and  the 
touch  of  yawning  dialect  at  the  end,  aire  extremely  pleasant. 


304  THE  INmCAtOR; 

While  wUfi  labour  assiduous  due  pleasure  I  miXf 

And  in  one  day  atone  for  the  business  of  sixt  • 

In  a  little  Dutch  chaise  on  a  Saturday  night, 

On  my  left  hand  my  Horace,  a  nymph  on  my  right : 

No  memoirs  to  compose,  and  no  post-boy  to  move, 

That  on  Sunday  may  hinder  the  softness  of  love ; 

For  her,  neither  Visits,  nor  parties  at  tea, 

Nor  the  long-winded  cant  of  a  dull  refugee:     ■ 

This  night  and  tlie  next  shall  be  hers,  shall  be  miney 

To  good  or  itl-fortune  the  third  we  resign  : 

Thus  scorning  the  world  and  superior  to  fate, 

I  drive  on  my  car  in  processional  state. 

So  with  Phia  through  Athens  Pisistratus  rode ; 

Men  thought  her  Minerva,  and  him  a  new  god. 

But  why  should  I  stories  of  Athens  rehearse. 

Where  people  knew  love,  and  were  partial  to  verse; 

Since  hone  can  with  justice  my  pleasures  oppose, 

In  Holland  half  drowned  in  interest  and  prose? 

By  Greece  and  past  ages  what  need  I  be  tried, 

When  the  Hague  and  the  present  are  both  on  my  side? 

And  is  it  enough  for  the  joys  of  the  day. 

To  think  what  Anacreon  or  Sappho  would  say  ? 

When  good  Vandergoes,  and  his  provident  vrow. 

As  they  gaze  on  my  triumph,  do  freely  allow, 

That,  search  all  the  province,  you'll  find  no  man  </ar  is 

So  blest  as  the  Englishen  Heer  Secretar  is; 

If  Prior  had  been  living  now,  he  would  have  found  the  want  of  tra- 
velling accommodation  flourishing  most  in  a  country,  for  whose  graver 
•wants  we  Iiave  to  answer,  without  having  her  wit  to  help  us.  There  is 
a  story  told  of  an  Irish  post-chaise,  the  occupier  of  which,  without 
quitting  it,  had  to  take  to  his  heels.  It  was  going  down  hill,  as  fast  as 
wind  and  the  impossibility  of  stopping  could  make  it,  when  the  foot 
passengers  observed  a  couple  of  legs  underneath,  emulatitrg,  with  all 
their  might,  the  rapidity  of  the  wheels.  The  bottom  had  come  out ; 
and  the  gentleman  was  obliged  to  run  for  his  life. 

We  must  relate  another  anecdote  of  an  Irish  post-chaise,  merely  to 
shew  the  natural  tendencies  of  the  people  to  be  lawless  in  ^elf-defence. 
A  friend  of  ours,  who  was  travelling  among  them,  used  to  have  this 
proposition  put  to  him  by  the  postillion,  whenever  he  approached  a 
turnpike.  "  Plase  your  honour,  will  I  drive  at  the  pike  ?"  The  pike 
hung  loosely  across  the  road.  Luckily,  the  rider  happened  to  be  of 
as  lawless  a  turn  for  justice  as  the  driver,  so  the  answer  was  always  a 
cordial  one; — "  Oh  yes—drive  at  the  pike."  The  pike  made  way 
accordingly ;  and  in  a  minute  or  two,  the  gate  people  were  heard  and 
seen^  screaming  in  vain  after  the  illegal  charioteers. 

Ferlur  equis  auriga,  neque  audit  currus. 

ViKG. 

The  driver's  borne  beyond  their  swearing, 

And  the  post-chaise  is  hard  of  hearing.  ,  :  L    ..  ) 

As  to  following  them,  nobody  in  Ireland  thinks  of  mdVing'^tOo  nfoclh, 
legal  or  illegal. 

The  pleasure  to  be  had  in  a  Mail-coach  is  not  so  much  at  one's  com- 
mand as  that  in  a  post-chaise.  There  is  generally  too  little  room  in  it, 
and  too  much  hurry  out  of  it.  The  company  must  not  lounge  over 
their  breakfast,  eTen  if  they  are  all  agreed.    It  is  an  understood  thing, 


tllE  INDICATOR.  366 

=fhat  they  are  bound  to  be  uncomfortably  punctual.  They  must  get  in 
at  seven  o'clock,  though  they  are  all  going  upon  business  they  do  not 
like  or  care  about,  or  will  have  to  wait  till  nine  before  they  can  do 
any  thing.  Some  persons  know  how  to  manage  this  haste,  arid  break- 
fast and  dine  in  the  cracking  of  a  whip.  They  stick  with  their  fork, 
they  joint,  they  sliver,  they  bolt.  Legs  and  wings  vanish  before  them, 
like  a  dragon's  before  a  knight-errant.  But  if  one  is  not  a  clergyman 
or  a  regular  jolly  fellow,  one  has  no  chance  this  way.  To  be  difhdent 
or  polite,  is  fatal.  It  is  a  merit  eagerly  acknowledged,  and  as  quickly 
set  aside.  At  last  you  begin  upon  a  leg,  and  are  called  off.  A  very 
troublesome  degree  of  science  is  necessary  for  being  well  settled  in  the 
coach.  We  remember  travelling  In  onr  youth,  upoti  the  north  road, 
with  an  orthodox  elderly  gentleman  of  very  venerable  peruke,  who 
talked  much  with  a  grave  looking  young  man  about  universities,  and 
won  bur  inexperienced  heart  with  a  notion  that  he  was  deep  in  Horace 
and  Virgil.  He  was  much  deeper  in  his  wig.  Towards  evening,  as 
he  seemed  restless,  we  asked  with  ninth  diffidence  whether  a  change 
even  for  the  worse  might  not  relieve  him ;  for  we  were  riding  back- 
wards, and  thought  that  all  elderly  people  disliked  thit  way.  He 
insinuated  the  very  objection ;  so  we  i-ecoiled  from  asking  him  again. 
In  a  minute  or  two  however,  he  insisted  that  we  were  uneasy  our- 
selves, and  that  he  must  relieve  us  for  our  own  sake.  AVe  protested 
as  filially  as  possible  against  this;  but  at  last,  out  of  mere  shame  of 
disputing  the  point  with  so  benevolent  ari  elder,  we  changed  seats  with 
"him.  After  an  interval  of  bland  meditation,  we  found  the  evening  sun 
full  in  our  facel — His  new  comfort  set  him  dozing  ;  and  every  now  and 
then  he  jerked  his  wig  in  our  eyes,  till  we  had  the  pleasure  to  see  him 
take  out  a  night-cap  and  look  extremely  ghastly. — The  same  person, 
and  his  serious  young  companion,  tricked  us  out  of  a  good  bed  we 
"happened  to  get  at  the  inn. 

The  greatest  peculiarity  attending  a  Mail-coach  arises  from  its  tra- 
velling at  night.  The  gradual  decline  of  talk,  the  incipient  snore, 
the  rustling  and  alteration  of  legs  and  nightcaps,  the  cessation  of 
other  noises  on  the  road,  the  sound  of  the  wind  or  rain,  of  the 
moist  circuit  of  the  wheels,  and  of  the  time-beating  tread  of  the 
horses,— all  dispose  the  traveller,  who  cannot  sleep,  to  a  double  sense 
of  the  little  that  is  left  him  to  observe.  The  coach  stops,  the  door 
opens  J  a  rush  of  cold  air  annoances  at  once  the  demands  and 
merits  of  the  guard,  who  is  taking  his  leave,  and  is  anxious  to  remem- 
ber us.  The  door  is  clapped  to  again  ;  the  sound  of  every  thing  out- 
side becomes  dim  ;  and  voices  are  heard  knocking  up  the  people  of  the 
inn,  and  answered  by  issuing  yawns  and  excuses.  Wooden  shoes 
clog  heavily  about.  The  horses'  mouths  are  heard  swilling  up  the  water 
out  of  tubs.  All  is  still  again  ;  and  some  one  in  the  coach  takes  a  long 
breath.  The  driver  mounts,  and  we  resume  our  way.  It  happens 
that  we  can  sleep  any  where  except  in  a  mail-coach  ;  so  that  we  hate 
to  see  a  prudent  warm  old  fellow,  who  has  been  eating  our  fowls  and 
intercepting  our  toast,  put  on  his  night-cap  in  order  to  settle  himself 
till  morning.  We  rejoice  in  the  digs  that  his  neighbour's  elbow  gives 
him,  and  hail  the  long-legged  truYeller  that  sits  opposite.     A  passen- 


r366  tllE  INJ)ICATOR. 

rgcsr,  of  our  wakeful  description  must  try  to  content  him^If  with  jisteD- 
'  iog  to  the  soun^s^above-mentioned  ;  or  thinking  of  his  fr,ipnds  j  or  turn- 
,,ing  yerses5,as  Sir  Richard  Blackmore  did  "  to  the  ^urnblipg  of  his  coach's 
^wlieels  ;"  or  chattir^g  with  the  servant-girl  who  is  going  to  place  (may 
nobody  get  her  dismissed,  nine  month's  hence  !)  ;  or  , protecting  her 
^<againsti  the  Methodist  in  the.corner  ;  or  if  alone  with  her,  and  she  has 
J,?'  kind  face,  protecting  her  against  a  much  more  difficult.  person,---hira- 
■■  self.  Really,,. we  must  say,  that  enough  credit  is  not  given  to  us  lawless 
•  persons  who  say  all  we  think,, and  would  have  the  world  enjoy  a.11  it 
-could.  There  iSfthe  author  of  the  Mail-coach  Adventure,  for  instance. 
,  With  all  his  amprous  verses,  his  yearnings  after  the  pleasarit  laws,  of 
^,;the,Golden  Age,  arid  even  his  very  hymns  (whichj  we  confess,^  are  a 
j  Jittle- mystic),  we  w'onld  rather  trust  a  fair  traveller  tp  his  keeping, 
i, than  some  much  graver  writers  we  have  heard  of.  .  If  he  forgqt  him- 
,,self,  he  would  nat  think  it  a  part  of  virtue  to  forget  her.  JBut  his  ab- 
^.folution  is  not  ready  at  hand,  as  for  graver  sinners.  The  yery^inten- 
^.*ity  pfrthe  sense  of  pl.easnre.,wiU  often  keep  a  man  from;destroying 
„  its  after-thoughts  in  another  ;  wben  harsher  systems  will  forget  them- 
selves, onJy  to  confound  brutality  with  repentance. 
.  The  Stage-coach  is  a  very  great  and  unpretending  accommodation. 
.  It  is  a  cheap  substitute,  notwithstanding  all  its  eighteen-penny,  and 
J  two  and  sixpenny  temptations,. for  keeping  a  carriage  or  a  horse  ;  and 
■j.w.e  really  think,  in  spite  of  its  gossiping,  is  no  mean  help  to  village  li- 
f  berality  ;  for  its  passengers  are  so  mixed,  so  often  varied,  soHttleyet 
so  much, together,  so  compelled  to  accommodate,  so  willing  to  pass  a 
J  short  time  pleasantly,  and  so  liable  to  the  criticism  of  strangers,  that 
,;,it:is  hard  if .  they  do  not  get  a  habit  of  speaking  or  even  thinking  more 
^  kindly  of  one  another,  than  if  they  mingled  less  often  or  under  other 
.  circumstances.  The  old  a«d  infirm  are  treated  with  reverence;  the 
ailing  sympathized  with  ;  the  healthy  congratulated  ;  the  rich  not  dis- 
,  tinguished  ;  the  pdor  well-met ;  the  young,  with  their  faces  conscious 
of  ride,  patronized  and  allowed  to  be  extra.  Even  the  fiery,  nay 
i  the  fat,  Jearn  to  bear  each  other :  and  if  some  high-thoughted  persons 
t  will  talk  now  and  then  of  their  great  acquaintances,  or  their  prefer- 
,,ence  of  a  carriage, . there  is  an  instinct  which  tells  the  rest  that  they 
..."would  not  make  such  appeals  to  their  good  opinion,  if  they  valued  it 
.  so  .little  as  might  be  supposed.  Stoppings  and  dust  are  not  pleasant ; 
but  the  latter  may  .be;had  on  much  grander  occasions  ;  and  if  any  one 
is  so  unlucky  as  never  to  keep  another  stopping  himself,  he  must  be 
..content  with  the  superiority  of  his  virtue.  The  mail  or  stage-coach- 
..  m^n^.upon  the.whole,  is  up  inhuman  mass  of  great  coat,  grutfness, 
^.civility,  and  old. boots.  The  latter  is  the  politer,  from  the  smaller 
,,,^ange  of  acquaintance,  and  his  necessity  for  preserving  them.  His 
vrface  is  red,  and  his  voice  rough,  by  the  same  process  of  drink  and  ca- 
J  tarrh..  He  has  a  silver  watch  with  a  steel-chain,  and  plenty  of  loose 
.,  silver  in  his  pocket  mixed  .with  halfpence,  He  serves  the  hous«fS  he 
;,gpes  by  for  a  clock.  He  takes  a  glass  at  every  ale-house  ;  for  thirst, 
ywhen  it  is  dry,  and  for  warmth  when  it  is  wet.  He  likes  to  shew  the 
,  judicious  reach  of  his  whip,  by  twigging  a  dog  or  a  goose  on  the  road, 
.  or  children  that  get  in  the  way.     His  tenderness  to  descending  old  la- 


THE'INOlCAf  dl?;v  SQfr- 

dies  is  particular;     He  toiliches  his  hat  to  Mh  Smith.'    He  gi^'es  "the  ^ 
young  womtth"  a  ride  ;  an^  lends  her  his  box-coat  in  the  rain.     His* 
liberality  in  imparting  his  knowledge  to  anyone  that  has  the  good  ■ 
fortune  to  ride  on  the  box  with  him,  is  a  happy  mixture  of  deference,' 
conscious  possession,  and  familiarity.     His  iofbrmation  chiefly  lies  irt" 
the  occupancy  of  houses  on  the  road,  prize-fighters,  Bow-street  run- > 
ners,  and  accidents.     He  concludes  that  you  know  Dick  Sams,  or 
Old  Joey  ;  and  proceeds  to  relate  some  of  the  stories   that  relish  his 
pot  and  tobacco  in  the  evening.     If  any  of  the  foar-in-hand  gentry  go 
by,  he  shakes  his  head,  and  thinks  they  might  find  sornething  better 
to  do.  His  contempt  for  them  is  founded  on  modesty.  He  tells  you  that 
his  off-hand  horse  is  as  pretty  a  goer  as  ever  was,  but  that  Kitty-*— *'|  Yeah 
now  there,  Kitty — can't  you  be  still  ?-^Kitty's  a  devil.  Sir,' — for  all 
you  would'nt  think  it."     He  knows  thcT>oys  on' the  road  admircf  him, 
and  gives  the  horses  aU  indifferent  iash  with  his  whip  as  they  go   by. 
If  you  wish  to  know  what  rain  arid  dust  can  do,  you  'should'  look  at 
his  old  hat.     There'll  an  indescribably  placid  arid  paternal  look  in 
the  position  of  his  corderoy  knees  arid  old  top  boots  on  the  foot- 
board, with  their  pointed  toes,  and  laever-cleaned   soles.     His  beau 
ideal  of  appearance,  is  a  ffock  coat  with  mother-o'*-pearl  buttons,  a 
striped  yellow  waistcoat,  and  a  flower  in  his  mouth. 

But  all  our  praises  wby  for  Charles  and  Robert  ? 
Rise,  honest  Mews,  and  sing  the  classic  Bob'drf. 

Is  the  quadrijugal  virtue  of  that  learned  person  still  extant  ?  That 
Olympic  and  Baccalaureated  charioteer  ?— That  best-educated  and 
most  erudite  of  coachtoen,  of  whom  Dominie  Simpson  is  alorie  worthy 
to  speak  ? — That  singular  punning  and  driving  commentary  on  the 
Sunt  quos  curriculo  coUegisse, — in  short,  the  worthy  and<  agreeable 
Mr.  Bobart,  Bachelor  of  Arts,  who  drove  the  Oxford  stage  sotiie  years 
ago,  capped  verses  and  the  front  of  his  hat  with  equal  dexterity,  and 
read  Horace  over  his  brandy  and  water  of  an  evening?  We  once  had 
the  pleasure  of  being  beaten  by  him  in  that  capital  art,  he  having 
brought  up  against  us  an  unusual  number  of  those  cross-armed  letters, 
as  puzzling  to  verse-cappers'  as  iron-cats  unto  cavalry,  ycleped  X's; 
which  said  warfare  he  Vi^as  pleased  to  call  to  mind  in  after-times,  unto 
divers  of  our  comrades.  The  modest  and  riatUral  greatness  vfith  which 
he  used  to  say  Yait  to  his  horses,  and  then'  turn  round  with  his  rosy 
gills,  and  an  eye  like  a  fish,-  and  giVe  out  thfe  re(5fuired  verse,  ean  never 
pass  away  from  us,  as  long  as  verses  or  horses  run. 

Of  the  Hackney-coach  we  cannot  make  as  short  work,  as  many  per- 
sons like  to  make  of  it  in  reality.  Perhaps  indeed  it  is  partly  a  sense 
of  the  contfeiiipt  it  iindefgoes,  which  inciuces  us  td  endeavour  to  make 
the  ties  toff  t;.  But  it  Has  its  merits,  jts^ve  shalt  s^hefw  preseittly.  In 
the  account  of  its  demerits,  we  have  been  anticipated  by  a  neW,  and 
we  are  sorr^  i'o  Say  it  v€<ry  gbdd  poetess^  of  the  irame  of  Lucy  V' .  .  . 

h ,  who  has  favoured  us  with  a  sight  of  a  manuscript  poem,  in 

which  they  are  related  with  great  nicety  and  sensitiveness. 
;  REA»i:ft,  Wliatj  Sir,  sori-y  to  say  that  a  lady  is  a  gootl  pbfetesS  ? 
..iNbicATbii.  Only  inasmuch.  Madam,  as  the  lady  gives  such  autho- 
rity to  the  antisocial  view  of  this  subjectj  and  will  not  agree  with  us 


3m  THE  INDICATOR. 

as  to  the  beatitude  of.the  Ilacknpy-coach.-^But  hold  ;— ^upon  turning  , 
to  the  Manuscript  ag!iin,  we  find  that  the  objections  are  put  into  th^  . 
inouth  of :  a  Dandj^  Courtier,     This  makes  a  great  difference.     ThiC,  i 
IJackney  resume?  all  which  it  had  lost  in  the  good  graces  of  the  fair 
awUtoress,    The  only  wonder  is,  hpwthe  Courtier  could  talk  so/vfeU. 
Here; is  the  passage.  -  ; 

Ebnn,  nnfempled  by  the  Pa«try-Coolv«, 
'  (Of  Pastry  lie  pot  store  williin  the  Palace), 

,         '        With  bant y  Steps*,  wrapp'd  cloak,  and  solemn  loofcs^ 
'..,.■   ^    ,  Incognito  upon  Itis  errand  sallies, 
^    ', .         '  His  smelirn{;-boitle  ready  for  tlie  allies  ; 
•"'■'■•'[  '_■■'  .  Hepass'd  the  Hiirdy-gnrdies  with  disdain, 
:  ;.  >  '      —Vowing  he'd  have  liiemseot  on  board  the  gallies  t 
i'n   M  .      Jost  as  he  made  bin  yow,.it'gan  to  rain, 
,:,  Therefore  he  call'd  a  coaci),  ai)d  bade  it  drixe  amain. 


. '(.r  "  I'll  piillithe  sirinp,"  said  lie,  and  further  said, 

Ji!   -jUi'.i  "^Polluted  Jarvey  !    Ah,  thou  filthy  liack  ! 
^.  ', .,    .  "Whose  springs  of  Hfe  are  all  dried  iip  and  dead, 
'     ■*.         .Whose  linsey-wolsey  lining  liangs  all  slack, 
- .'oo .        W'bose  rug  is  straw,  w hose  wholeness  is  a  crack  ; 
I,:--''.         And.  evermore  thy  steps  go  clatter-clitter; 

Whose  glass  ouce  up  can  never  be  got  back, 
Wlio  prov'st,  with  jolting  arguments  and  bitter, 
That  'tis  of  vileiiO'Use  to  travel  in  a  litter. 

"  Thou  inconvenietjce  !   thou  hurigry  crop 
For  all  corn  I  thou  snail-creeper  to  and^  tro. 
Who  wJiile  fliou  goevt  ever  seem'st  to  stop. 
Arid  fiddle-faddle ;standest  while  you  go; 
r,  the  .nsorning,  freighted  with  a  weight  of  woe. 
Unto  sotne  Lazar-house  thou  jouiuiest, - 
And  in  the  evening  tak'st  a  double  row 
Of  dowdies,  for  some  dance  or  par-iy  dri5St, 
Besicles  the  goods  meanwhile  thou  mov est  east  and  west. 

'      •  ♦'•By  thy  nngaHant  bearing  and  sad  mien,       ■' 

An  Uicli  Appears  the  uitioost  thou  couldst  budge; 
Yet  at  the  slightest  nod,  or  hint,  or  sign, 
Rourid  to  the  curb-stone  patient  dost  thoii  trudge, 
SchooI'd  in  a  beckon,  learned  in  a  nudge ; 
A  dull-eyed  Argus  walchrng  for  a  fare; 
Quiet  and.  plodding  thou  dost  bear  no  grudge 
To  vyhisking. Tilburies,  or  Pliaetons  rare, 
Curricles,  or.  Mail-coaches,  swift  beyond  compere." 

Philosophising  thus,  lie  pirll'd  t,he  check. 
And  bade  the  Cyiichman  wiieel  to  such  a  street, 
Who  turning  much  his  body,  more  his  neck, 
touted  full  low,  and  hoarsely  did  him  greet. 

The  tact  here  is  so  nice,  of  all  the  infirmities  which  are  bqt  too  likely 
tp  beset  our  poor  old  frietid,  that  we  should  only  spoil  it  to  say  moie. 
To  pass  then  to  the  merits. 

£We  are  sorry  we  must  break  oflF  here  for  want  of  room.] 


Printed  and  published  by  Joseph  Appleyaud,  No.  19,  Cather)ne«8lreef»  Strand. 
Price  ^d.— And  sold  also  by  A.  Gliddon,  Importer  of  Snuffs,  No.  31,  Tavistock- 
street,  Covent-garden.  Orders  received  at  the  above  places,  and  by  ,all  Boek- 
sellers  and  Newsmen.  .Cv;j;  9j;r  w' 


THE    INDICATOR. 


There  he  arriving  round  ahout  doth  flie. 
And  tak.es  survey  with  hujie  curious  eyf: 
Now  tbis,  now  tliat,  lie  tasteUi  tenderly. 

Spbn»EA. 


No.  XLVII.— WEDNESDAY,  AUGUST  30th,  182a. 


COACHES  And  THEIR  HORSES. 

(concluded  PROM  LABT  WEEK.) 

One  of  the  greatest  helps  to  a  sense  of  merit  in  other  things^  is  a 
consciousness  of  one's  own  wants.  Do  you  despise  a  Hackney-CJoach  ? 
Get  tired  ;  get  old;  get  young  again.  Lay  down  your  own  carriage, 
or  make  it  less  uneasily  too  easy.  Have  to  stand  up  half  an  hour,  out 
of  a  storm,  under  a  gateway.  Be  ill,  and  wish  to  visit  a  friend  who  is 
worse.  Fall  in  love,  and  want  to  sit  next  your  mistress.  Or  if  all 
this  will  not  do,  fall  in  a  cellar. 

Ben  Jonson  in  a  fit  of  indignation  at  the  niggardliness  of  James  the 
First,  exclaimed,  "  He  despises  me,  I  suppose,  because  I  live  in  an 
alley  : — tell  him,  his  soul  lives  in  an  alley."  We  think  we  see  a  hack- 
ney-coach moved  out  of  its  ordinary  patience,  and  hear  it  say,  ^'  You. 
there,  who  sit  looking  so  scornfully  at  me  out  of  your  carriage,  you 
are  yourself  the  thing  you  take  me  for.  Your  understanding  is  a 
Tiackney-coach.  It  is  lumbering,  rickety,  and  at  a  stand.  When  it 
moves,  it  is  drawn  by  things  like  itself.  It  is  at  once  the  most  sta- 
tionary and  the  most  servile  of  common-places.  And  when  a  good 
tiling  is  put  into  it,  it  does  not  know  it." 

But  it  is  difficult  to  imagine  a  hackney-coach  under  so  irritable  aa 
aspect.  It  is  Hogarth,  we  think,  who  has  drawn  a  set  of  hats  or  wigs 
with  countenances  of  their  own.  We  have  noticed  the  same  thing  in 
the  faces  of  houses ;  and  it  sometimes  gets  in  one's  way  in  a  landscape- 
painting,  with  the  outlines  of  the  massy  trees.  A  friend  tells  us,  that 
the  hackney-coach  has  its  countenance,  with  gesticulation  besides  r 
and  now  he  has  pointed  it  out,  we  can  easily  fancy  it.  Some  of  them 
look  chucked  under  the  chin,  some  nodding,  some  coming  at  you  side- 
ways. W^e  shall  never  find  it  easy  however  to  fancy  the  irritable 
aspect  above-mentioned.  A  hackney-coach  always  appeared  to  us  the 
«ost  quiescent  of  moveables.      Its  horses  and  it,  slumbering  on  a 


370  THE  INDICATOR. 

stand,  are  an  emblem  of  all  the  patience  in  creation,  animate  and  inani- 
mate. The  submission  with  which  the  coach  takes  every  variety  of 
the  weather,  dust,  rain,  and  wind,  never  moving  but  when  some  eddy- 
ing blast  makes  its  old  body  seem  to  shiver,  is  only  surpassed  by  the 
vital  patience  of  the  horses.  Can  any  thing  better  illustrate  the  poet's 
line  about 

—^ Years  that  bring  the  philbsbphic  mind,        '     "' 

than  the  still-hung  head,  the  dim  indifferent  eye,  the  dragged  and' 
blunt-cornered  mouth,  and  the  gaunt  imbecility  of  body  dropping  its 
weight  on  three  tired  legs  in  order  to  give  repose  to  the  lame  one  ? 
When  it  has  blinkers  on,  they  seem  to  be  shutting  up  its  eyes  for 
death,  like  the  windows  of  a  house.  Fatigue  and  the  habit  of  suffer- 
ing have  become  as  natu-ral  to  the  creature,  as  the  bit  to  its  mouth. 
Once  in  half  .an  hour  it  moves  the  position  of  its  leg,  or  shakes  its 
drooping  old  ears."  The  whip  makes  it  go,  more  from  habit  than 
from  pain.  Its  coat  has  become  almost  callous  to  minor  stings.  The 
blind  and  staggering  fly  in  autumn  might  come  to  die  against  its  cheek. 
Of  a  pair  of  hackney-coach  horses,  one  so  much  resembles  the  other, 
that  it  seems  unnecessary  for  them  to  compare  notes.  They  have  that 
within  which  is  beyond  the  comparative.  They  no  longer  bend  their 
heads  towards  each  other,  as  they  go.  They  stand  together  as  if  un- 
conscious of  one  another's  company,  but  they  are  not.  An  old  horse 
jnisses  his  companion  like  an  old  man.  The  presence  of  an  associate, 
who  has  gone  through  pain  and  suffering  with  us,  need  not  say  any 
'thing.  It  is  talk,  and  memory,  and  every  thing.  Something  of  this  it 
maybe  to  our  old  friends  in  harness.  What  are  they  thinking  of, 
while  they  stand  motionless  in  the  rain  ?  Do  they  remember  ?  Do 
they  dream?  Do  they  still,  unperplexed  as  their  old  blood  is  by  too 
many  foods,  receive  a  pleasure  from  the  elements ;  a  dull  refreshment 
from  the  air  and  sun  ?  Have  they  yet  a  palate  for  the  hay  which  they 
pull  so  feebly  ?  or  for  the  rarer  grain,  which  induces  them  to  perform 
their  only  voluntary  gesture  of  any  vivacity,  and  toss  up  the  bags  that 
are  fastened  on  their  mouths,  to  get  at  its  shallow  feast  ? 
J  If  the  old  horse  were  gifted  with  memory,  ("and  who  shall  say  he  i§ 
not,  in  one  thing  as  well  as  another  ?)  it  might  be  at  once  the  most  me- 
lancholy and  pleasantest  feeling  he  has  ;  for  the  commonest  hack  has 
Very  likely  been  a  hunter  or  racer  -^  has  had  his  days  of  lustre  and  en- 
joyment; has  darted  along  the  course,  and  scoured  the  pasture  ;  has 
carried  his  master  proudly,  or  his  lady  gently  ;  has  pranced,  has  gal- 
loped, has  neighed  aloud,  has  dared,  has  forded,  has  spurned  at  mas- 
tery, has  graced  it  and  made  it  proud,  has  rejoiced  the  eye,  has  been 
crowded  to  as  an  actor,  has  been  all  instinct  with  life  and  quickness, 
has  had  its  very  fear  admired  as  courage,  and  been  sat  upon  by  valour 
as  its  chosen  seat. 

Mis  ears  up  prick'd  ;  his  braided  hanp;inw  mana 

Upon-bis  compassed  crest  now  stands  on  end  ; 

Hi's  nostrils  drink  the  air;  and  forth  again, 

As  from  a  furnace,  vapours  doth  he  send  ; 
'-'*'■  •■  '■■'  His  eye,  which  scornfully  glistens  like  fire, 

j;    jj.T  Shows  his  hot  cournge  aad  his  high  desire. 


THE  INDICATOR.  Bftl 

Sometimes  lie  trots  as  if  be  told  tlie  steps,  i 

Witli  p;en(le  majesty,  and  modest  pride;  > 

Anon  Tie  rears  upright,  curvets  and  leaps, 
Ajs  who  would  say,  lo  !  thus  my  strength  is  try'd  ; 

And  thus  1  do  to  captivate  the  eye 

Of  the  fair  breeder  that  is  standing  by. 

What  recketh  he  his  rider's  ancjry  stir, 
His  flattering  holla,  or  his  Stand,  I  say? 
What  cares  he  now  for  curb,  or  pricking  spur  ? 
For  rich  caparisons,  or  trappings  gay? 

He  sees  his  love,  and  nothing  else  he  sees, 

For  nothing  else  with  his  proud  sight  agrees.  I 

Look,  when  a  painter  would  surpass  the  life, 

In  limning  out  a  well  proportioned  steed. 

His  art  with  nature's  workmanship  at  strife. 

As  if  the  dead  the  living  should  exceed  ;  j 

So  did  this  horse  excel  a  common  one,  ,      ; 

In  shape,  in  courage,  colour,  pace,  and  bone. 

Round'hoof'd,  short-jointed,  fetlocks  shag  and  long, 
Broad  breast,  full  eyes,  small  head,  and  nostril  wide; 
High  crest,  short  ears,  straight  legs,  and  passing  strong, 
Thin  mane,  thick  tail,  broad  buttock,  tender  hide  ; 

Look  what  a  horse  should  have,  he  did  not  lack,,  ^ 

Save  a  proud  rider  on  so  proud  a  back.         . 

Alas!  his  only  riders  now  are  the  fain  and  and  a  sordid  harness  [a 

The  least  utterance  of  the  wretchedest  voice  makes  him  stop  and  be-  > 

come   a  fixture.      His  loves  were  in  existence  at   the  time  the    old"'^ 

sign,  fifty  miles  hence,  was  first  painted.     His  nostrils  drink  nothing  •' 

but  what  they  cannot  help, — the  water  out  of  an  old  tub.     Not  all  the ' 

hounds  in  the  world  could  make  his  ears  attain  any  eminence.     HiS' 

mane  is  scratchy  and  lax  :  his  shape  an  anatomy  :  his  name  a  mockery. -^ 

The  same  great  poet  who  wrote  the  triumphal  verses fdr  him  and  hiS' 

loveSj  has  written  their  living  epitaph  :-^  .    .r 

>  •iiihiiv  '•({;  If-  .  !!:!lo.^  Y'-'' '^'w,!-''  :   *''  .'  ,  ■   '  '      ' 

_  •  ,    ,   )-  ,       The  poor  jades 

Lob  down  their  fteads,  dropping  the  hide  and  hips  J  ■ 

The  gum  down  roping  from  their  paVe  dead  eyes  J 

And  in  their  pale  dull  mouths  the  gimmal  bit  :..;..;  i    ,* 

Lies  foul  with  chevv'd  grass,  still  and  motionless,    -j  ,',  .    \i  jj*  ■sniI)QfiJt 

K.  Henry  6th^  Ad  A._,,^,,,  ,^^^ 

There  is  a  song  called  the  High-mettled  Racer,  describing; the, pro*r 
gress  of  a  favourite  horse's  life,  from  its  time  of  vigour  and  glory,  do wnf 
to  its  furnishing  food  for  the  dogs.  It  is  not  as  good  as  Shakspeare  jr 
but  it  will  do,  to  those  who  are  half  as  kind  as  he.  We  defy  aiiy  bodyt 
to  read,  that  song,  or  be  in  the  habit  of  singing  it  or  hearing  it  sung,] 
and  treat  horses  ^s  they  are  sometimes  treated.  So  much  good  tnay. 
an  author  do,  ^ho  is  in  earnest,  and  does  not  go  a  pedantic  Way  t«; 
work.  We  will  not  say  that  Plutarch's  good-natured  obseirvatioitr 
about  taking  care  of  one's  oldhprse,  did  more  for  that  class  of  retired* 
servant^  than  all  the  graver  lessons  of  philosophy.  For  it  is  philo--^ 
sophy  which  first  sets  people  thinking ;  aiid  thensome  dfthemput.it) 
in  a  more  popular  shape.  But  v»;e  will  venture  to  say,  that  Plutarch's, 
ebsiervation  saved  many  a  steed  of  antiquity  a  superfluous  thump  j.^ti^nd; 
in  thi^  respect,  the  j^uthor  ol  thje  JlJgh-mettled  Racer  (MriDibtJiri,  w«» 


af2  THE  INDICATOR, 

believe,— no  mean  man,  after  all,  in  his  way)  may  stand  by  the  sido  of 
the  illustrious  biographer.     Next  to  ancient  causes,  to  the  inevitable 
progress  of  events,  and  to  the  practical  part  of  Christianity  (which  per- 
sons, the  most  accused  of  irreli^ion,  have  preserved  like  a  glorious 
infant,  through  ages  of  blood  and  fire)  the  kindliness  of  modern  philo- 
sophy is  more  immediately  owing  to  the  great  national  writers  of  Eu- 
rope,  in  whose  schools  we  have  all  been   children: — to  Voltaire  in 
France,    and    Shakspeare    in    England.     Sbakspeare,    in    his   time, 
obliquely  pleaded  the  cause  of  the  Jew,  and  got  him  set  on  a  common 
level  with  humanity.     The  Jew  has  since  been  not  only  allowed  to  be 
human,  but  some  have  undertaken  to  shew  him  as  "  the  best  good 
Christian  though  he  knows  it  not."     We  shall  not  dispute  the  title  with 
him,  nor  with  the  other  worshippers  of  Mammon,  who  force  him  to 
the  same  shrine.     We  allow,  as  things  go  in  that  quarter,  that  the  Jew 
is  as  great  a  Christian  as  his  neighbour,  and  his  neighbour  as  great  a 
Jew  as  he.     There  is  neither  love  nor  money  lost  between  them.     But 
at  all  events,  the  Jew  is  a  man  ;  and  with  Shakspeare's  assistance,  the 
time  has  arrived,   when  we  can  afford  to  acknowledge  the  horse  for  a 
fellow-creature  and  treat  him  as  one.     We  may  say Tor  him,  upon  pre- 
cisely  the  same    grounds  and  to   the  same  purpose,    as   Shakspeare 
said  for  the  Isrealite,  "  Hath  not  a  horse  organs,  dimensions,  senses, 
affections,  passions  ?  hurt  with  the  same  weapons,  subject  to  the  same 
diseases,  healed  by  the  same  means,  warmed  and  cooled  by  the  same 
■winter  and  summer,  as  a  Christian  is  ?"     Oh — but  some  are  always  at 
hand  to  cry  out, — it  would.be  efFcrainate  to  think  too  much  of  these 
things'. — Alas!  we  have  no  notion  of  asking  the  gentlemen  to  think 
too  much  of  anything.     If  they  will  think  at  all,  it  will  be  a  great 
gain.     As  to  effeminacy   (if  we  must  use  that  ungallant  and  partial 
■word,  for  want  of  a  better)  it  is  cruelty  tliat  is  elTeminate.     It  is  sel-     ' 
fishness  that  is  effeminate.     Any  thing  is  effeminate,  Avhich.  would  get. 
an  excitement,  or  save  a  proper  and  manly  trouble,  at  the  undue  ex-    " 
pense  of  another. — Hoav  does  the  case  stand  then  between  tliose  who 
ill  treat  their  horses,  and  those  who^spare  them  ? 

To  return  to  the  coach.  Imagine  a  fine  coach  and  pair,  which  are 
Standing  at  the  door  of  a  house,  in  all  the  pride  of  their  sleek  strength 
and  beauty,  converted  into  what  they  may  both  really  become,  a  hack- 
Bey  and  its  old  shamblers.  Such  is  one  of  the  meditations  of  the  phi- 
losophic eighteenpenny  rider.  A  hackney-coach  has  often  the  arms  of 
nobility  on  it.  As  we  are  going  to  get  into  it,  we  catch  a  glimpse  of 
the  faded  lustre  of  an  earl's  or  marquis's  coronet,  and  think  how  many 
light  or  proud  hearts  have  ascended  those  now  rickety  steps.  In  this 
coach  perhaps  an  elderly  lady  once  rode  to  her  wedding,  a  blooming 
and  blushing  girl.  Her  mother  and  sister  were  on  each  side  of  her  ; 
the  bridegroom  opposite  in  a  blossom-coloured  coat.  They  talk  of 
every  thing  in  the  world,  of  which  they  are  not  thinking.  The  sister 
■was  never  prouder  of  her.  The  mother  with  difficulty  represses  her 
own  pride  and  tears.  The  bride,  thinking  he  is  looking  at  her,  casts 
down  her  eyes,  pensive  in  her  joy.  The  bridegroom  is  at  onoe  the 
proudest,  and' the  humblest,  and  the  happiest  man  in  the  world. — For 
©ur  part»5  we  sit  in  a  corner,  and  are  in  love  with   the  sister.     We 


THE  INDICATOR.  3^3 

dream  aha  is  going  to  apeak  to  08  In  answer  to  some  indifferent  ques- 
tion, wlien  a  hoarse  voice  comes  in  at  the  front  window,  and  say9 
"  Whereabouts,  Sir  ?" 

.  And  grief  has  consecrated  thee,  thou  reverend  dilapidation,  as  well 
jdy !  Thou  hast  carried  unwilling  as  well  as  willing  heaits;  hearts, 
that  have  thought  the  slowest  of  thy  paces  too  fast ;  faces,  that  have 
sat  back  iri  a  corner  of  thee,  to  hide  their  tears  from  the  very  thought 
of  being  seen.  In  thee,  the  destitute  have  been  taken  to  the  poor- 
house,  and  the  wounded  and  sick  to  the  hospital ;  and  many  an  aiTa 
has  been  round  many  an  insensible  waist.  Into  thee,  the  friend  or  the 
lover  has  hurried,  in  a  passion  of  tears,  to  lament  his  loss.  In  thee,  he 
has  hastened  to  console  the  dying  or  the  wretched.  In  thee,  the  father 
or  mother,  or  the  older  kinswoman,  more  patient  in  her  years,  has 
taken  the  little  child  to  the  grave,  like  a  human  jewel  that  must  be 
parted  with. 

-  But  joy  appears  in  thee  again,  like  the  look-in  of  the  sunshine. 
If  the  lover  has  gone  in  thee  unwillingly,  he  has  also  gone  willingly. 
How  many  friends  hast  thou  not  carried  to  merry-meetings  !  How 
many  young  parties  to  the  play  !  How  many  children,  whose  faces 
thou  hast  turned  in  an  instant  from  the  extremity  of  lachrymose  wea- 
riness to  that  of  staring  delight !  Thou  hast  contained  as  many  dif- 
ferent passions  in  thee  as  a  human  heart:  and  for  the  sake  of  the  human 
heart,  old  body,  thou  art  venerable.  TIjou  shalt  be  as  respectable  as 
a  reduced  old  gentleman,  whose  very  slovenliness  is  pathetic.  Thou 
shalt  be  made  gay,  as  he  is  over  a  younger  and  richer  table,  and  thou 
shalt  be  still  more  touching  for  the  gaiety. 

We  M'ish  the  hackney-coachman  were  as  interesting  a  machine  as 
either  his  coach  or  horses  :  but  it  must  be  owned,  that  of  all  the  driv- 
ing species,  he  is  the  least  agreeable  specimen.  This  is  partly  to  be 
attributed  to  the  life  which  has  most  probably  put  him  into  hjs  situa- 
tion ;  partly  to  his  want  of  outside  passengers  to  cultivate  his  genti- 
lity ;  and  partly,  to  the  disputable  nature  of  his  fare,  which  always 
leads  him  (o  be  lyi'ig  and  cheating.  The  waterman  of  the  stand,  who 
beats  him  if  possible  in  sordidness  of  appearance,  is  more  respectable. 
He  is  less  of  a  vagabond,  and  cannot  cheat  you.  Nor  is  the  hackney- 
coachmen  only  disagreeable  in  himself,  but  like  FalstafF  reversed,  the 
cause  of  disagreeableness  in  others;  for  he  sets  people  upon  disputing 
with  him  in  pettiness  and  ill-temper.  He  induces  the  mercenary  to 
be  violent,  and  the  violent  to  seem  mercenary.     A  man   whom  you 

took  for  a  pleasant  laughing  fellow,  shall  all  of  a  sudden  put  on  an 
irritable  look  of  calculation,  and  vow  that  he  will  be  charged  with  a 
constable  rather  than  pay  the  sixpence.  Even  fair  woman  shall  waive 
her  all-conquering  softness,  and  sound  a  shrill  trumpet  in  reprobacioa 
of  the  extortionate  charioteer,  who,  if  she  were  a  man  she  says,  she 
would   expose.     Being  a  woman   then,   let  her   not   expose   herself. 

Oh — but  it  is  intolerable  to  be  so  imposed  upon  !  Let  the  lady  then 
get  a  pocket-book,  if  she  must,  with  the  hackney-coach  fares  in  it ; 
or  a  pain  in  the  legs,  rather  than  the  temper;  or  above  all,  let  her 
get  wiser,  and  have  an  understanding  that  can  dispense  with  the  good 
opinion  of  hackney-coachmmi.     Does  she  think  that  her  rosy  lips 


3fr*  THE  INDICATOR.  " 

were  Tnade  to  grow  pale  about  two  and  sixpence  ?  or  tljal  the  cat  ef 
them  will  ever  be  like  lier  cousin  Fanny's,  if  she  goes  on  ?-^(.See 
No.  11,  page  88.) 

,The  stage-coachman  lik»'S  the  boys  on  the  road,  because  he  knows 
th6y  admire  him.  The  hackney-coachman  knows  that  they  cannot 
admire  him,  and  that  they  can  get  up  behind  his  coach ;  which  makes 
him  very  savage.  The  cry  of  "  cut  behind,"  from  the  malicious  ur- 
chins on  the  pavement,  wounds  at  once  his  self-love  and  his  interest. 
He  would  not  mind  over-loading  his  master^s  horses  for  another  six- 
pence ;  but  to  do  it  for  nothiug,  is  what  shocks  bis  humanity.  He 
hates  the  boy  for  imposing  upon  lirm,  and  the  boys  for  reminding  him 
that  he  has  been  imposed  upon  ;  and  he  would  willingly  twinge  the 
cheeks  of  all  nine..  The  cut  of  his  whip  over  the  coach  is  very  ma- 
lignant. He  has  a  constant  eye  to  the  road  behind  him.  He  has  also 
an  eye  to  what  may  be  left  in  the  coach.  He  will  undertake  to  search 
the  straw  for  you,  and  miss  the  half-crowu  on  purpose,  He  specu- 
lates on  what  he  may  get  above  his  fare,  according  to  your-manners 
or  company  ;  and  knows  how  much  to  ask,  for  driving  faster  or  slower 
than  usual.  He  does  not  like  wet-weather  so  much  as  people  sup- 
pose;  for  he  says,  it  rots  both  his  horses  and  harness,  and  he  takes 
fjarties  out  of  town  when  the  weather  is  fine  ;  which  produces  good 
payments  in  a  lump.  Jjovers,  late  supper-eaters,  and  girls  going) 
home  from  boarding-school,  are  his  best  pay.  He  has  a  rascally  air( 
of  remonstrance,  when  you  dispute  half  (he  overcharge;  and  accord><'. 
ing  to  the  temper  he  is  in,  begs  you  to  consider  his  bread,  hopes  you 
will  not  make  such  a  fuss  about  a  trifle,  or  tells  you  may  take  his 
number,  or  sit  in  the  coach  all  night. 

Lady.  There,  Sir  1 

iNBieATou  (looking  all  about  him.)   Where,  Ma'am? 
'  Lady.  The  coachman,  Sir  I 

Indic.  Oh,  pray.  Madam,  don't' trouble  yourself.  Leave  the 
gentleman  alone  with  him.  Do  you  continue  to  be  delightful  at  a 
little  distance^  '  ' 

•  A  great  number  of  ludicrous  adventures  must  have  taken  place,  in 
which  hackney-coaches -were  concerned.  The  story  of  the  celebrated 
Harlequin,  Lunn,  who  secretly  pitched  himself  out  of  oiie  into  a  ta- 
vern window,  and  when  the  coachman  was  about  to  submit  to  the  loss 
of  his  fare,  astonished  him  by  calling  out  again  from  the  inside,  is  too 
well  known  for  repetition.  There  is  one  of  Swift,  not  perhaps  so  com- 
mon. He  was  going,  one  dark  evening,  to  dine  with  some  great  man, 
and  was  accompanied  with  some  other  clergyman,  to  whom  he  gave 
their  cue.  They  were  all  in  their  canonicals.  When  they  arrive  at 
the  house,  the  coachman  opens  the  door,  and  lets  down  the  steps. 
Down  steps  the  Dean,  very  reverendly  in  his  black  robes:  after  him^ 
comes  another  personage,  equally  black  and  dignified  :  then  another  : 
then  a  fourth.  The  coachman,  who  recollects  taking  up  no  greater 
liiimber,  is  about  to  put  up  the  steps,  when  another  clergyman  de- 
scends. After  giving  way  to  this  other,  he  proceeds  with  great  confi* 
dence  to  toss  them  up,  when  lo!  another  comes.  Well ;  there  cannot, 
he.  thinks,  be  well  more  than  six.    He  is  mistakeii.     Dowivcodms  jk 


i 


i:HE,  INDICATOR.  3T5 

Seventh  ;  then  an  eighth  ;  then  a  ninth,  all  with  decent  Intervals^  tfee 
coach  in  the  mean  time  rocking  as  if  it  were  giving  birth  to  so  many 
daemons.  The  coachman  can  conclude  no  less.  He  cries  out,  ^'  The 
Devil !  the  Devil !"  and  is  preparing  to  run  away,  when  they  all  burst 
into  laughter  at  the  success  of  their  joke.  They  had  gone  round  as 
they  descended,  and  got  in  at  the  other  door. 

We  remember  in  our  boyhood,  an  edifying  comment  on  the  proverb 
of  "  all  is  not  gold  that  glistens."  The  spectacle  made  such  an  impress 
sion  upon  us,  that  we  recollect  the  very  spot,  which  was  at  the  corner 
of  a  road  in  the  way  from  Westminster  to  Kennington,  near  a  stone- 
-mason's.  It  was  a  severe  winter  ;  and  we  were  out  on  a  holiday,  think- 
ing [lerhaps  of  the  gallant  hardships  to  which  the  ancient  soldiers  used 
to  accustom  themselves,  when  we  suddenly  beheld  a  group  ofhackney- 
'coachmen,  not,  as  Spenser  says  of  his  witch,        ..    ,    .    , 

I   o*    f.'!J:.'ii      Busy,  as  seemerf,  about  some  wicked  gin',-'^''"'''^"' ^^*  '■•  ' 

'but  pledging  each  other  in  what  appeared  to  us  i'o  belit'^le  glasses  ot 
cold  water.  What  temperance  !  thought  we.  What  extraordinary 
and  noble  content !  What  more  than  Roman  simplicity  !  There  are 
a  set  of  poor  Englishmen,  of  the  homeliest  order,  in  the  very  depth 
of  winter,  quenching  their  patient  and  honourable  thirst,  with  modi- 
cums of  cold  water  !  O  true  virtue  and  courage !  O  sight  worthy 
of  the  Timoleons  and  Epaminondases  ! — We  know  not  how  long  we 
remained  in  this  error  ;  but  the  first  time  we  recognised  the  white 
devil  for  what  it  was^ — the  first  time  we  saw  through  the  chrystal  pu- 
rity of  its  appearance, — was  a  great  blow  to  us.  We  did  not  then  know 
what  the  drinkers  went  through ;  and  this  reminds  us  that  we  have 
omitted  one  great  redemption  of  the  hackney-coachman's  character,— 
his  being  at  the  mercy  of  all  sorts  of  chances  and  weathers.  Other 
drivers  have  their  settled  hours  and  pay.  He  only  is  at  the  mercy  of 
every  call  and  every  casualty  ;  he  only  is  dragged,  without  notice,  like 
the  damned  in  Milton,  into  the  extremities  of  wet  and  cold,  from  his 
alehouse  fire  to  the  freezing  fain  •  he  only  must  go  any  where,  at 
what  hour,  and  to  ^yhatever  place  you  chuse,  his  old  rheumatic  limbs 
^shaking  under  his  weight  of  rags,  and  the  snow  and  sleet  beating  into 
his  puckered  face,  through  streets  which  the  .i^ind  scours  like  a 
channel.  .]  ,,, ,     ,,,     .^  . 


ARIOSTO'S  PRISON. 

With  all  Ariosto's  popularity,  this  is  the  first  time,  we  believe,  that 
one  of  his  sonnets  has  appeared  in  English.  Indeed,  as  for  that  mat- 
ter, his  great  poem  itself  may  be  said  to  be  very  little  known  through 
the  medium  of  the  versiopa.hitherto  extant^  and  he  must  have  an  in- 
destructible charm  in  him  indeed,  who  Avith  such  representations 
of  him,  can  at  all. vindicate  among  qs  the  popularity  of  his  nam^ 
abroad. 

That  he  deserves  that  name  is  certain.  Those  who  read  him  in 
the  original  (anii  Italian  is  far  from  difficult  to  any  body,  especially  if 


374  THE  INDIGATOR. 

Kb  reads  Jjiiln  or  Fcench^  know  what  an  ead less  variety  te  has  irf 
story,  and  picture,  and  passion,  and  the  most  delightful  humanitj,  atl 
told  m  a  style  the  most  prompt,  graceful,  and  heart-brt-athiog  in  the 
■world.  To  those  who  do  not  read  him  in  Italian,  and  who  feel  that 
they  cannot  discover  him  in  his  English  version,  perhaps  even  tiiis  almost 
literal  version  of  one  of  his  trifles  will  afford  a  glimpse  of  that  pleasant^ 
ivess  and  imivete,  of  which  they  have  so  often  heard.  The  language  is 
•sutficiently  unreserved  it  must  be  allowed;  but  it  is  full  of  a  geni«l 
impulse:  it  is  the  reverse  of  any  thing  impertinent  or  unsuitable  ;  and 
-the  reader  of  true  delicacy  will  know  how  to  distinguish  it  accordingly 
-from  grossness.  The  old  Italians,  not  excepting  Petrarch,  were  accus- 
tomed to  have  more  faith  in  the  natural  goodness  of  such  a  simplicity 
4han  we  :  and  of  a  like  mind  was  Shakspeare.  The  turn  round  which 
the  poet  makes  upon  his  prison,  and  the  laurelled  love  which  the  lady 
had  in  store  for  herself,  make  up  an  agreeable  pair  of  images  io  the 
mind,  preisentand  absent.  The  repetition  of  the  word  But  is  remark- 
ably apprehensive  and  enjoying. 

Avventnroso  carcere  soave, 
I  Dove  ne  per  furor  ne  per  dispetto. 

Ma  per  amor  e  per  pieici  distretto 
La  bella  e  dolcp  mia  nemica  m'ave  ! 
Gli  altri  priuion  al  volger  de  la  cliiave 
S'attristano  ;  io  m'allegro,  che  diletto 
E  nonjnfiarlir,  vita  e  non  morta  aspetto, 
N^  giudice  sever  nd  tegge  grave  : 

IWa  bejiigtie  accoglienze,  ma  complessi 

Licei)zio!-i,  ma  parole  sciolie 

Da  ogni  freno,  ma  risi,  vezzt,  giiioclii, 

Ma  dolci  baci  dolcemeiite  impresHi 

Bfen  mille  e  milte,  e  mille  e  mille  volte  J, 

i.in   moil  fbi-";  <^.  ■:   'jV/    ;.:  j^^ih.     .,   . 
><•     «•.,'!'    .  P,)iic1vy pnson^bHt,l)e,captivity, 

"']   *!',''  wtiereneiliier  out  of  rage  nor  out  of  spite,  i     <, 

^  '•'■■•  Bui  bouild  by  love  and  charity's  sweet  migbl^'  <*^  b(lB    jIUO;: 

•I  She  hasme  tasi, —  my  lovely  enemy;  -•''.',   i  J   ;  i 

Olhers,"^purning  of  their  prison  key, 
Sadden  ;  I  triumph  ;  since  I  have  in  sight 
Not  death  but  life,  not  suffering  but  delif>h». 
Nor  law  severe,  uor  judge  thai  hears  no  plea; 

But  gatherings  to  the  heart,  bat  wilful  blisses, 

But  words  that  in  such  moments  are  no  crime.*. 

But  laughs,  and  tricks,  and  winning  Ways;  but. kisses, 

Delicious  kisses  put  deliciously, 

A  thousaiid,  thousatid,  thousand,  thousand  times; 

Aad  yet  how  few  will  all  those  tlioueands  bel 


Printed  and  published   by  Joseph  Appleyarp,  No.  19,  Cntherlne-Rtreet,  Strand. 
Price  2d. — And  sold  also  by  A.  Gliddon,  Importer  of  Snuffs,  N*.  31,  Tavistort- 
slreet,  Cqvi»nt-g»rden.     Orders  received  at  ll»«  abov«  places,  and  by  all  Boek- 
.  selWra  and  Nswsmeu. 


THE    INDICATOR. 


There  he  arriving  round  about  dotfc  flie. 
And  takes  survey  with  busie  curious  eyes 
>?«w  this,  now  that,  he  tasteth  tenderly. 

SpB^BIIt. 


No.  XLVIII.—WEDNESDAY,  SEPTEMBER  6th,  1820. 


TRANSLATION  OF  ANDREA  DE  BASSO'S  ODE  TO  A  DEAD  BODY* 
AND  REMARKS  UPON  IT. 

We  are  given  to  understand  by  the  Italian  critics,  that  the  following 
ode  made  a  great  sensation,  and  was  alone  thought  sufficient  to  render 
its  author  of  celebrity.  Its  loathly  heroine  had  been  a  beauty  of  Fer- 
rara,  proud  and  luxurious.  It  is  written  in  a  fierce  Catholic  spirit, 
and  is  incontestibly  very  striking  and  even  appalling.  Images,  which, 
would  only  be  disgusting  on  other  occasions,  atfect  us  beyond  disgust, 
by  the  strength  of  such  earnestness  and  sincerity.  He  lays  bare  the 
mortifying  conclusions  of  the  grave,  and  makes  the  pride  of  beauty  bow 
down  to  them.  What  we  have  to  say  further  on  the  poem,  will  better 
follow  than  precede  it. 

RisoRGA  de  la  tomba  avara  e  lorda 

La  putrida  tua  salma,  o  donna  crudb, 

Orciie  di  spirto  niida, 

£  cieca,  e  muta,  e  sorda, 

Ai  vermi  dai  pasturaj 

E  du  la  prima  altura 

Da  fiera  morte  scossa  •  .    ,     r 

Fai  tuo  letto  una  fossa. 

Notte,  continua  notte 

Ti  divora  ed  ingliiotte, 

E  la  puzza  ti  smembra 

Le  Si  pastose  membra, 

!^  ti  stai  Rtta  fitta  per  dispetto. 

Come  animal  immondo  al  laccio  stretto. 

Vedrai  se  ognun  di  te  mettr4  paura, 

E  fiirrgir^  come  garzon  ia  sera 

Da  1  ombra  lunga  e  nera.J 

Che  striscia  per  le  mura ; 

Vedrai  se  al  tuo  invitare 

Alcun  vorr^  cascare ; 

Vedrai  se  seguiranti 

Le  turbe  de  gli  amanti ; 

E  se  il  d\  porterai 

Per  dove  passerai ; 

O  pur  se  spargerni  tenebre  e  lezzo, 

Tal  die  a  te  slessa  verrai  ia  disprezza: 


37«  THE  INDICATOR. 

E  (ornerai  clen(ro  rimmonde  bolge 

Per  minor  pena  de  la  tua  baldanza. 

La  tua  disonoranza 

Allora  ill  te  si  volge, 

£  grida,  o  sciaurata, 

Clie  fosti  si  sfrenata  : 

Quest^  e  il  premio  che  torna 

A  chi  tanto  s'adorna, 

A  chi  nutre  sue  carne 

Senza  qua  giu  guardarne. 

Dove  tutto  se  volve 

Ifvcenere  ed  in  polve, 

E  dove  non  e  requie  o  penilenza, 

Fino  a  quel  dl  de  rivltrcna  seiiteitzn. 

Dov'  S  quel  bianco  seno  d'  alabasfro, 

Ch'  ondoleggiava  come  al  margin  ftulto  ? 

In  fango  s*  6  ridutto. 

Dove  gli  occhi  lucenti, 

Due  Stella  risplendenti  f 

Ahi  die  son  duecaveme^ 

Dove  orror  sol  si  scerne. 

Dove  ii  labbro  si  beilo  ■ 

Che  parea  di  pennello  ? 

Dove  la  guancia  tonda  ? 

Dove  la  ehloma  bionda? 

E  dove  simmetrfa  di  portamento? 

Tutto  e  smarrito,  come  nebbia  al  venlo» 

I^on  tel  diss'  io,  tanle  ffate  e  lanle. 

Tempo  verra  che  non  sarai  piu  bella, 

5£  non  parrai  piiS  qoelia, 

E  Hon  avrai  piti  amante. 

Or  ecco  vedi  il  frutfo 

D'  ogni  tuo  antico  fasto. 

Cos'  e,  che  non  sia  guasto 

Di  quel  tuo  corpo  molle? 

Cos'  ^,  dove  not!  bolle, 

E  verme,  e  putridume, 

E  puzza,  e  sucidume  ? 

Dimmi,  cos'  6,  cos'  e,  che  possa  piue 

Far  a'  luoi  proci  le  figure  sue  ? 

Dovevi  altra  merc^'  chiedef  che  amorey 

Chieder  dovevi  al  cielo  pentHnento. 

Amor  cos'  ^?  un  tormento. 

Amor  cos' ^?  un  dolore»- 

F.  Ill,  gonfia  e  superba, 

Ch'  eri  sol  lk>re  ed  erba 

Che  languon  nati  appena, 

E  te  credevi  piena 

Di  balsamo  immortale; 

Credevi  d'  aver  1'  ale 

Da  volar  su  le  nubi  ; 

E  non  eri  che  Annbi 

Adorato  in  Egitto  oggi  e  Jomane 

In  la  sembianza  di  Molosso  caiie. 

Poco  giovo  ch'  io  ti  dicessi  r  Vanne-, 
Vanne  pentita  a  pi^  del  confessore, 
Digli:  frate,  io  moro 
Ne  le  rabbiose  sanne 
De  I'  infernal  dragone, 
Se  twa  pieta  non  pone- 


THE  INDICATOR.  S79 


Argine  al  mio  faliire. 

lo  vurrei  ben  uscire; 

Ma  St  mi  tiene  il  laccio, 

Che  per  tirar  ch'  io  faccio 

Romper  not  posso  punto; 

SI  che  oramai  consunto 

Ho  lo  spirito  e  1'  alma,  e  tu  puot  eolo 

Togliermi  per  piela  fuori  di  duolo. 

Allor  si  the  'I  morir  non  saria  amaroy 

Che  morte  a'  giusli  ^  soiino,  e  non  ^  morie, 

Vedesti  mai  per  sorte 

Putir  che  dorme?  raro, 

Raro  chi  non  s'alievi 

Dai  sonni  anche  nou  brevi. 

Tu  saresti  ora  in  alto 

Sopra  il  stellalo  smalto, 

E  di  la  ne  la  fossa 

Vedresti  le  lue  ossa 

E  Candida  e  odorose 

Come  i  gigli  e  le  rose: 

E  nel  di  poi  de  I'angelica  tromba, 

Volentier  verria  1'  alma  a  la  tua  lomba. 

Canzon,  vanne  la  Centre 

In  quell'  orrido  centro; 

Fnggi  poi  presto,  e  dille,  che  non  spera 

Pieia,  chi  aspella  di  pentirsi  a  sera. 


Rise  from  the  loathsome  and  devouring  tomb, 

Give  up  thy  body,  woman  without  heart, 

Now  that  its  worldly  part 

Is  over:;  and  deaf,  blind,  and  dumb, 

Thou  servest  worms  for  food: 

And  from  thine  altitude 

Fierce  death  has  shaken' thee  down,  and  thou  doat  4^ 

Thy  bed  within  a  pit. 

Night,  endless  night  hath  got  thee 

To  clutch  and  to  englut  thee; 

And  rottenness  confounds 

Thy  limbs  and  their  sleek  rounds} 

And  thou  art  stuck  there,  stuck  there,  in  despite, 

Like  a  foul  animal  ^d  a  trap  at  night. 

Gome  in  the  public  path,  and  see  how  all 
Shall  fly  thee,  as  a  child  goes  shrieking  back 
Frons  something  long  and  black. 
That  mocks  along  the  wall- 
See  if  the  kind  will  stay 
To  hear  what  thou  wouldst  say; 
See  if  thine  arms  can  win 
One  soul  to  think  of  sin  ^ 
See  if  the  tribe  of  wooers 
Will  now  become  pursuers; 
And  if  where  they  make  way, 
Thou'lt  carry  now  the  day; 

Or  whether  thou  wilt  spread  not  such  foul  night. 
That  thou  thyself  shall  feel  tke  shudder  and  tTie  fright,. 

Yes,  till  thou  turn  info  the  loathly  hole. 
As  the  least  pain  to  thy  bold-faccdness. 
There  let  thy  foul  distress 
Turn  round  upon  thy  soul, 


sap*  THE  INDfeATOR. 

Atid  cry,  O  wretch  in  a  shroud,  \ 

That  wust  80  headstrong  proud, 

This,  this  is  the  reward, 

For  hearts  that  are  so  hard,    • 

That  flaunt  so,  and  adorn. 

And  pamper  them,  and  scorn 

To  cast  a  thought  down  hither, 

Where  all  things  come  to  wither; 

And  where  no  resting  is,  and  no  repentance. 

Even  to  the  day  of  the  last  awful  sentence. 

Where  is  that  alabaster  bosom  now. 

That  undulated  once,  like  sea  on  shore? 

'Tis  clay  unto  the  core. 

Where  are  those  sparkling  eyp9, 

That  were  like  twins  o'  the  skieb  ? 

Alas,  two  caves,  are  they. 

Filled  only  with  dismay. 

Where  is  the  lip,  that  shone 

l.ike  painting  newly  done? 

Where  the  round  cheek?  and  where 

The  sunny  locks  of  hair? 

And  where  the  symmetry  that  bore  them  all  ? 

Gone,  like  the  broken  clouds  when  the  windu  fall. 

Did  I  not  tell  thee  this,  over  and  over? 

The  time  will  cotne,  when  thou  wilt  not  be  f.iir? 

Nor  have  that  conquering  air  ?       •  • 

Nor  be  supplied  with  lorer  ? 

Lo!   now  behold  the  fruit 

Of  all  th^t  scorn  of  shame: 

Is  there  one  sppt  the  same 

In  all  that  fondled  flesh  ? 

One  limb  that's  no^  a  mesli 

Of  worms,  and  sore  offence, 

And  horrible  succulence  ? 

Tell  me,  is  there  png  jot,  on^  jot  remaining. 

To  shew  thy  lovers  now  the  shapes  which  thou  wast  vain  in  ? 

Love? — Heav'n  should  bq  implored  for  something- eU^, 

For  power  to  weep,  and  to  bow  down  one's  soul. 

Love? — 'Tis  a  fiery  dole; 

A  pui]ishraent  like  heirn. 

Yet  thou,  puffed  with  thy  power, 

Who  wert  but  as  the  flowirr 

That  warns  us  in  the  psalm, 

Didst  think  thy  veins  ran  balir^ 

From  an  immortal  founts 

Didst  take  on  thee  to  mount 

Upon  an  angel's  wings. 

When  thon  wert  but  a?  ilHng<» 

Clapped,  on  a  day,  in  ^Egypt's  catalogue. 

Under  the  worshipped  nature  of  a  dog. 

Ill  would  it  help  thee  now,  were  I  to  say. 
/  Go,  weep  at  thy  confessor's  feet,  and  cry, 

"  Help,  father,  or  I  die: 
See — see-T-hie  knows  liis  prey, 
/Cv'h  he,  the  dragon  old  I 
Oh,  be  thou  a  strong  hold 
Betwixt  my  foe  and  me! 
For  I  would  fain  be  free, 
*  But  am  so  bound  in  ill. 

That  struggle  a."  !  w:ll. 


THE  INDICATOR.  381 

It  strains  me  to  (he  last; 

And  I  «m  losing  fast 

My  breath  and  my  poor  soul,  and  thou  art  he 

Alone  canst  save  me  in  thy  piety," 

But  thou  didst  smile  perhaps,  thou  thing  beiotted. 
Because,  with  some,  death  is  a  sleep,  a  word  I 
Hast  thou  then  ever  heard 
Of  one  that  slept  and  rotted  ? 
Rare  is  the  sleeping  face. 
That  wakes  not  as  it  was. 
Thou  shoutd'st  have  earned  high  heaven, 
,  And  then  thou  tnight'st  have  given 

Glad  looks  below,  and  seen 
Thy  buried  bones  serene 
As  odorous  and  as  fair. 
As  evening  lilies  are; 

And  in  the  day  of  the  great  trump  of  doom, 
Happy  thy  soul  had  been  to  join  them  at  the  tomb. 

Ode,  go  thou  down,  and  enter 

'J'he  horrors  of  the  centre. 

Then  fly  amajn,  with  news  of  terrible  fate 

To  tliose  who  think  tiiey  may  repent  ihem  late. 

Certainly,  all  this  is  very  povrerful.  The  picture  of  the  once  beau- 
tiful, proud,  and  unthinking  creature,  caught,  and  fixed  down  in  a 
wasting  trap, — the  calling  upon  her  to  come  forth,  and  see  if  any  one 
Avill  novp  be  won  into  her  open  arms, — the  taunts  about  the  immortal 
balm  which  she  thought  she  had  in  her  veins, — the  whole,  in  short,  of 
the  terrible  disadvantage  under  which  she  is  made  to  listen  with 
unearthly  ears  to  the  poet's  lecture,  affects  the  imagination  to  shud- 
dering. 

No  wonder  that  such  an  address  made  a  sensation,  even  upon  the 
gaiety  of  a  southern  city.  One  may  conceive,  how  it  fixed  the  super- 
stitious more  closely  over  their  meditations  and  skulls;  how  it  sent 
the  young,  and  pious,  and  humble,  upon  their  knees;- how  it  baulked 
the  vivacity  of  the  serenaders  ;  brought  tears  into  the  eyes  of  affec- 
tionate lovers  ;  and  shot  doubt  and  confusion  even  into  the  cheeks  of 
the  merely  wanton.  Andrea  de  Basso,  armed  with  the  lightnings  of 
his  church,  tore  the  covering  from  the  grave,  and  smote  up  the  heart 
of  Ferrara  as  with  an  earthquake. 

For  a  lasting  impression  however,  or  for  such  a  one  as  he  would 
have  desired,  the  author,  with  all  his  powers,  overshot  his  mark. 
Men  build  again  over  earthquakes,  as  nature  resumes  her  serenity. 
The  Ferrarese  returned  to  their  loves  and  guitars,  when  absolution 
had  set  them  to  rights.  It  was  impossible  indeed  that  Andrea  de  Basso 
should  have  succeeded  in  fixing  such  impressions  upon  the  mind;  and 
it  would  have  been  an  error  in  logic  as  well  as  every  thing  else,  if  he 
had.  He  committed  himself  both  as  a  theologian  and  a  philosopher.  The 
allusion,  towards  the  end  of  his  ode,  is  to  the  Catholic  notion,  that  the 
death  of  a  saintly  person  is  accompanied  by  what  they  call  "  the  odour 
of  sanctity;" — a  literalized  metaphor,  which  they  must  often  have  been 
perplexed  to  maintain.  But  the  assents  of  superstition,  and  the  in- 
stinct of  common  sense,  always  keep  a  certain  separation  at  bottom; 
and  the  poet  drew  such  a  picture  of  mortality^  as  m  ou!d  infallibly  be 


382  THE  INDICATOR. 

applied  to  every  one,  vicious  or  virtuous.  It  M'as  too  close  and  mor- 
tifying, even  for  the  egotism  of  religious  fancy  to  overcome.  All  would 
have  an  insterest  in  contradicting  it  somehow  or  other. 
'  On  the  other  hand,  if  they  could  not  well  contradict  or  bear  to 
think  of  it,  his  mark  was  overshot  there.  It  has  been  observed,  in 
times  of  shipwrecks,  plagues,  and  other  circumstances  of  a  common 
despair,  that  upon  the  usual  principle  of  extremes  meeting,  mankind 
turn  about  upon  death  their  pursuer,  and  defy  him  to  the  teeth.  The 
superstious  in  vain  exhort  them  to  think ;  and  threaten  them  with  the 
consequences  of  their  refusal.  They  have  threats  enough.  If  they 
could  think  to  any  purpose  of  refreshment,  they  would.  But  time 
presses  ;  the  exhortation  is  too  like  the  evil  it  would  remedy ;  and 
they  endeavour  to  crowd  into  a  few  moments  all  the  enjoyments,  to 
which  nature  has  givefl  them  a  tendency,  and  to  which,  with  a  natural 
piety  beyond  that  of  their  threateners,  they  feel  that  they  have  both  a 
tendency  and  a  right.  If  many  such  odes  as  Basso's  could  have  been 
wiitten, — if  the  court  of  Ferrara  had  turned  superstitious  and  patro- 
nized such  productions,  the  next  age  would  not  merely  have  been 
lively;  it  would  have  been  debauched. 

Again,  the  reasoning  of  snch  appeals  to  the  general  sense  is  absurd 
in  itself.  They  call  upon  us  to  join  life  and  death  together;-— 
to  think  of  what  we  arc  not,  with  the  feelings  of  what  we  are  ;  to  be 
■very  different,  and  yet  to  be  the  same.  Hypochondria  may  do  this; 
a  melancholy  imagination,  or  a  strong  imagination  of  any  sort,  may 
do  it  for  a  time ;  but  it  will  never  be  done  generally,  and  nature  never 
■  intended  it' should.  A  decaying  dead  body  is  no  more  the  real  human 
being,  than  a  watch,  stopped  and  mutilated,  is  a  time-piece,  or  cold  water 
Warm,  or  a  numb  finger  in  the  same  state  of  sensation  as  the  one  next 
it,  or  any  one  modification  of  being  the  ^ame  as  another.  We  may 
pitch  ourselves  by  imagination  into  this  state  of  being;  but  it  is  our- 
selves, modifietl  by  our  prpsent  totalities  and  sensation,  that  we  do 
pitch  there.  What  we  may  be  otherwise,  is  another  thing.  The  me- 
laticholy  imagination  may  give  it  melancholy  fancies;  the  Ijvelier  one 
■may  if  it  pleases,  suppose  it  a  state  of  exquisite  dissolution.  The  phi- 
losopher sees  in  it  nothing  but  a  contradiction  to  the  life  by  which  we 
judge  of  it,  and  a  dissolution  of  the  compounds  which  held  us  toge-^ 
thet.  There  is  one  thing  alone  in  such  gloomy  beggings  of  a  ques- 
tion, which  throws  them  back  upon  the  prescriptions  of  wisdom,  and 
prevMits  them  from  becoming  general.  They  are  always  accompanied 
by  ill-health.  We  do  not  mean  a  breaking  up  of  the  frame,  or  that 
very  road  to  dearth,  which  may  be  a  kindly  and  chearful  one,  illu- 
mined by  the  sunset,  as  youth  was  by  the  dawn:  bat  a  polluted  and 
artificial  state  of  blood,  or  an  insufficient  vigour  of  existence,— that 
state  in  short,  which  is  an  exception  to  the  general  condiiton  of  hu- 
manity, and  acts  like  the  proof  of  a  rule  to  the  intentions  of  Nature. 
For  these  are  so  kind,  that  no  mistake  in  the  world,  not  even  vice  it- 
self, is  so  sure  to  confu^se  a  man's  sensations  and  render  them  melan- 
choly. Nature  seems  to  say  to  us,  "  Be,  above  all  things,  as  natural 
as  you  can  contrive, — as  much  as  possible  in  the  best  fashion  of  the 
mould  in  which  1  cast  you,  ax\d  you  shall  be  happy.".    Nor  is  this  ua^ 


THE  INDICATOR.  338 

lucky  for  vrrtue,  but  most  lucky:  for  it  takes  away  Us  pride,  and 
leaves  it  all  its  cheerfulness.  Heal  vice  will  soon  be  found  to  be  real 
unhealthiness  :  nor  could  society  have  a  better  guide  to  the  reforma- 
tion of  its  moral  system,  than  by  making  them  as  compatible  as  possi- 
ble with  every  healthy  impulse.  But  why,  it  may  be  asked,  are 
we  not  all  healthy  ?  It  is  impossible  to  say  :  but  this  is  certain,  that 
the  oftener  a  man  asks  himself  that  question,  the  more  intimations  he 
has  that  he  is  to  try  and  get  out  of  the  tend'ency  to  ask  them.  We 
may  live  elsewhere  :  we  may  be  compounded  over  again,  and  receive 
a  new  consciousness  here  ; — a  guess,  which  if  it  seems  dreary  at  first, 
might  lead  us  to  make  a  heaven  of  the  earth  we  live  in,  evep  for  pur 
own  sakes  hereafter.  But  at  all  events,  put,  as  Jupiter  says  in  the 
fable,  your  shoulder  to  the  wheel ;  and  put  it  as  chearfully  as  yott 
can.  The  way  that  Andrea  de  Basso  should  have  set  about  reforming 
the  grosser  Ferrarese  beauties,  would  have  been  to  shew  them  that 
their  enjoyments  were  hurtful  in  proportion  as  they  were  extravagant  ; 
and  less  than  they  might  be,  in  proportion  as  they  were  in  bad  taste. 
But  to  ask  the  healthy  to  be  hypochondriacal ;  the  beautiful  to  think 
gratuitously  of  ugliness  ;  and  the  giddy,  much  less  the  wise,  to  desire 
to  be  angels  in  heaven  by  representing  God  as  a  cruel  and  eternal  pu- 
nisher, — -is  what  never  could,  and  never  ought  to  have,  a  lasting  effect 
on  humanity. 

It  has  been  well  observed,  that  life  is  a  series  of  present  sensations. 
It  might  be  added,  that  the  consciousness  of  the  present  moment  is  one 
of  the  strongest  of  those  present  sensations.  Still  this  consciousness  is 
a  series,  not  a  line  ;  a  variety  with  intervals,  not  a  continuity  and  a 
haunting.  If  it  were,  it  would  be  unhealthy  :  if  it  were  unhealthy,  it 
would  be  melancholy ;  if  it  were  melancholy,  the  evident  system 
npon  which  nature  acts  would  be  different.  Thus  it  is  impossibk,  that 
men  should  be  finally  led  by  gloomy,  and  not  by  pleasant  doctrines. 

When  the  Ferrarese  beauties  read  the  pbein  of  Andrea  de  Basso,  it 
occupied  the  series  of  their  sensations  for  a  little  while,  more  o^r  less 
according  to  their  thoaghtfulness,  and  more  or  less  even  then  accord- 
ing to  their  unhealthiness.  The  power  of  voluntary  thought  is  pro- 
portioned to  the  state  of  the  health.  In  a  little  time,  the  Ferrarese, 
being  like  other  general  multitudes,  and  even  gayer,  would  turn  to 
their  usual  reflections  and  enjoyments,  as  they  accordingly  did.  About 
that  period  Ariosto  was  born.  He  rose  to  vindicate  the  charity  and 
good-will  of  najiure ;  and  put  forth  more  real  wisdom,  truth,  ami 
even  piety,  in  hii  willing  enjoyment  of  the  creation,  than  all  the  monks 
in  Ferrara  could  have  mustered  together  for  centuries. 

To  conclude,  Andrea  de  Basso  mistook  his  own  self,  as  well  as  the 
means  of  instructing  his  callous  beauty.  We  can  imagine  her  dis- 
agreeable enough.  There  are  few  things  more  oppressive  to  the  heart, 
than  the  want  of  feeling  in  those  whose  appearance  leads  others  to  feel 
intensely  ; — the  sight  of  beauty  sacrificing  its  own  real  comfort  as  well 
as  ours,  by  a  heartless  and  indiscriminate  love  of  admiration  from  young 
and  old,  the  gross  and  the  refined,  the  wise  and  the  foolish,  the  good- 
natured  and  the  ill-natured,  the  happy-making  and  the  vicious.  If 
Andrea  de  Basso's  heroine  was  one  of  this  stamp,  we  can  imagine  her 


384  THE  INDICATOPL 

io  have  Irritated  his  best  feelings,  as  vtpII  as  his  more  suspicious  onir«. 
We  hope  she  was  not  merely  a  giddy  creature,  who  had  not  quite  pa- 
tience enough  with  her  coi\fessor.  We  hope  also, — many  other  things. 
Confessors  are  not  persons  to  be  provoked,  either  by  ladies  or  gentle- 
men. Alfred  the  Great,  when  a  youth,  was  accustomed  to  turn  a  deaf 
ear  to  the  didactics  of  his  holy  kinsman  St.  Neot ;  for  which,  says  the 
■worthy  Bishop  Asser,  who  was  nevertheless  a  great  admirer  of  the 
King,  and  wrote  his  life,  all  those  troubles  were  afterwards  brought 
upon  him  and  his  kingdom.  Be  this  as  it  may,  and  supposing  theFer- 
Tarese  beauty  to  have  been  a  cruel  one,  in  the  sense  which  the  reli- 
gious poet  implies,  he  was  not  aware,  while  triumphing  over  her  poor 
folly,  and  endeavouring  to  enjoy  the  thought  of  her  torments,  that 
he  was  confounding  the  very  sentiment  of  the  thing  with  its  reverse, 
and  doing  his  best  to  make  himself  a  worse  and  more  hard-hearted 
person  than  she.  His  efforts  to  make  us  think  lightly  of  the  most 
beautiful  things  in  the  external  world,  by  shewing  us  that  they  will 
not  always  be  what  they  are,— that  a  smooth  and  graceful  limb  will 
not  for  ever  be  the  same  smooth  and  graceful  limb,  nor  an  eye  an  eye, 
nor  an  apple  an  apple,  are  not  as  wise  as  they  are  poetical.  To 
have  said  that  the  limb,  unless  admired  with  sentiment  as  well  as  ordi- 
nary admiration,  is  a  very  common-place  thing  to  what  it  might  be, 
and  that  there  is  more  beauty  in  it  than  the  lady  supposed,  would  have, 
been  good.  To  make  nothing  of  it,  because  she  did  not  make  as  much 
as  she  could,  is  unwise.  But  above  all,  to  consign  her  to  eternal 
punishment,  in  the  next  world,  because  she  gave  rise  to  a  series  of 
fugitive  evils -in  this, — granting  even  that  she,  and  not  her  wrong  edu- 
cation, was  the  cause  of  them,— -is  one  of  those  idle  worryings  of  him- 
self and  others,  which  only  perplex  further  what  they  cannot  explain, 
and  have  at  last  fairly  sickened  the  world  into  a  sense  of  their  un- 
healthiness. 

What  then  remains  of  the  poetical  denouncements  of  Andrea  de 
Basso?  Why  the  only  thing  which  ought  to  remain,  and  which  when 
left  to  itself  retains  nothing  but  its  pleasure, — their  poetry.  Whea. 
Dante  and  Milton  shall  cease  to  have  any  effect  as  religious  dogma-I 
tizers,  they  will  still  be  the  mythological  poets  of  one  system  of  faith, 
as  Homer  is  of  another.  So  immortal  is  pleasure,  and  so  surely  does 
it  escape  out  of  the  throng  of  its  contradictions. 


printed  and  published  by  Josrph  AprLETARD,  No.  19,  Calhcrint-strpet,  Strand, 
Price  2d. — And  sold  mI»o  by  A.  Guddon,  Importer  of  Snuffg,  No.  SI,  Tavistock* 
street,  Covent-garden.  Ordars  receivsd  at  the  above  place*,  and  by  all  Bock- 
eellers  and  Newvpnea. 


THE    INDICATOR, 


There  lie^irivlnjf  round  aboiit  dotli  (lie. 
And  l;ikes  survey  with  bitsie  curious  eye  : 
Nuw  this,  now  that,  he  tastetU  tenderly. 

SPBNSEB. 


No.  XLIX.— WEDNESDAY,  SEPTEMBER  13th,  1820. 


THOUGHTS  AND  GUESSES  ON  HUMAN  NATURE. 

CONFUSION    OP    MODES    OF   BEINC. 

.  People  undertake  to  settle  what  ideas  they  shall  have  under  such 
and  such  circumstances  of  being,  when  it  is  nothing  but  their  present 
state  of  being,  that  enables  them  to  have  those  ideas. 

VARIETY    OF   The  COLOORS    OF    PERCEPTION. 

There  is  reason  to  suppose,  that  our  perceptions  and  sensations  are 
inuch  more  different  then  we  imagine,  even  upon  the  most  ordinary 
things,  such  as  visible  objects  in  general,  and  the  sense  of  existence. 
We  hg.ve  enough  in  common,  for  common  intercourse;  but  the  details 
are  dissimilarj  as  we  may  perceive  in  the  variety  of  palates.  All 
jaeople  are  agreed  upon  sweet  and  sour  ;  but  one  man  prefers  sour  to 
sweet,  and  another  this  and  that  variety  of  sour  and  sweet.  *'  Wha^ 
then  is  the  use  of  attempting  to  make  them  agree?"  Why,  we  may 
try  to  make  them  agree  upon  certain  general  modes  of  thinking  and 
means  of  pleasure : — we  may  colour  their  existence  in  the  gross, 
though  he  must  leave  the  particular  shades  to  come  out  by  themselves. 
:We  jnay  enrich  their  stock  of  ideas,  though  we  cannot  controul  the 
items  of  the  expenditure. 

CANNOT. 

•  "  But  what  if  we  cannot  do  even  this  ?"  The  question  is  answered 
•by  experience.  Whole  nations  and  ages  have  already  been  altered  in 
.their  modes  of  thinking.  Even  if  it  were  otherwise,  the  endeavour  is 
itself  one  of  the  varieties;  one  of  the  modes  of  opinion  and  means  of 
pleasure.  Besides,  Cannot  is  the  motto  neither  of  knowledge  nor 
.  Jiumility.  There  is  more  of  pride,  and  ignorance,  and  despair,  in  It, 
tlian  of  the  modesty  of  wisdom.  It  would  settle  not  only  the  past,  but 
the  future;  and  it  woukl  aettle  the  future,  merely  because  the  past 
'has.  not  been  influenced  by  those  that  use  it. 


3«6  THE  INDICATOR. 

Who  are  these  men  that  measure  futurity  by  the  shadow  of  their 
own  littlenees?  It  is  as  if  (he  loose  stones  lying  about  a  foundation 
were  to  say,  "  You  can  build  no  higher  than  our  heads.'' 

SUPERSTITION   AND    DOCTHINE. 

Superstition  attempts  to  settle  every  thing  by  assertion ;  which  never 
did  do,  and  never  will.  And  like  all  assertors,  even  well-inclined 
ones,  it  shews  its  conscious  feebleness  in  anger  and  threatening.  It 
commands  us  to  take  its  problems  for  granted,  on  pain  of  being  tied  up 
to  a  triangle.  Then  come  its  advocates,  and  assert  that  this  mode  of 
treatment  is  proper  and  logical :  which  is  making  bad  worse.  The 
worst  of  all  is,  that  this  is  the  way  in  which  the  finest  doctrines  in  the 
world  are  obstructed.  They  are  like  an  excellent  child,  making  the 
Grand  Tour  with  a  foolish  overbearing  tutor.  The  tutor  runs  a 
chance  of  spoiling  the  child,  and  makes  their  presence  disagreeable 
wherever  they  go,  except  to  their  tradesmen.  Let  us  hope  the  child 
has  done  with  his  tutor. 

SECOND   TUOUGMT   ON    THE   VARIETY    OF   THE    COLOURS    OF    PERCEPTION. 

We  may  gather  from  what  we  read  of  diseased  imaginations,  how 
much  our  perceptions  depend  upon  the  modification  of  our  being. 
We  see,  how  personal  and  inexperienced  we  are  when  we  determine 
that  such  and  such  ideas  must  take  place  under  other  circumstances, 
and  such  and  such  truths  be  always  indisputable.  Pleasure  must 
always  be  pleasure,  and  pain  be  pain,  because  these  are  only  names 
for  certain  results.  But  the  results  themselves  will  be  pleasure- 
able  or  painful,  according  to  what  they  act  upon.  A  man  in  health 
becomes  sickly ;  he  has  a  fever,  is  light-headed,  is  hypochondriacal. 
His  ideas  are  deranged,  or  re-arrange  themselves ;  and  a  set  of  new 
perceptions,  and  colourings  of  his  existence,  take  place,  as  in  a  Kalei- 
doscope when  we  shake  it.  The  conclusion  is,  that  every  alteration  of 
our  physical  particles,  or  of  whatever  else  we  are  compounded  with, 
produces  a,  different  set  of  percepiions  and  sensations.  What  we  call 
healthof  body  and  mind  is  the  fittest  state  of  our  composition  upon 
earth :  but  the  state  of  perception  which  is  sickly  to  our  state  of 
existence,  m^y  be  healthy  to  another-.  .'  i 

DEATH. 

Of  a-ll  impositions  on  the  public,  the  greatest  seems  to  be  death.  It 
resembles  the  threatening  faces  on  each  side  the  Treasury.  Or  rather, 
it  is  a  necessary  bar  to  our  tendency  to  move  forward.  Nature  sends 
us  out  of  her  hand  with  such  an  impetus  toward^  increase  of  enjoy- 
ment, that  something  is  obliged  to  be  set  at  the  end  of  the  avenue  we 
are  in,  to  moderate  our  bias  and  make  us  enjoy  the  present  being. 
Death  serves  to  make  us  think,  not  of  itsej^f,  but  of  what  is  about  us. 

CniLDWeOD  A\D  KNOWLEDGE. 

When  children  are  in  good  health  and  temper,  they  have  a  sense  of 
existence  whicli  seems  too  exquisite  to  last.  It  is  made  up  of  clearness 
of  blood,  freshness  of  perception,  and  trustingness  of  heart.  We  re- 
member the  time,  whoa  the  green  rails  along  a  set  oT  suburb  gardens 


THE  INDICATOR.  387 

used  to  fill  us  with  a  scrips  of  holiday  and  rural  sensations  peiftctly 
intoxicating.  According  to  the  state  of  our  health,  we  have  sunny 
glimpses  of  this  feeling  still;  to  say  nothing  of  many  other  pleasures, 
Avhich  have  paid  us  for  many  pains.  The  best  time  to  catch  them  is 
early  in  the  morning,  at  sun-rise,  out  in  the  country.  And  we  will 
here  add,  that  life  never  perhaps  feels  such  a  return  of  fresh  and  young 
feeling  upon  it,  as  in  early  rising  on  a  fine  morning,  whether  in  country 
or  town.  The  healthiness  of  it,  the  q^iiet,  the  consciousness  of  having 
done  a  sort  of  young  action  (not  to  add  a  wise  one),  and  the  sense  of 
power  it  gives  you  over  the  coming  day,  produce  a  mixturo  of  light- 
ness and  self-possession  In  one's  feelings,  which  a  sick  man  must  not 
despair  of  because  he  does  not  feel  it  the  first  morning.  But  even  this 
reform  should  be  adopted  by  degrees.  The  best  way  to  recommend  it 
is  to  begin  with  allowing  fair  play  to  the  other  side  of  the  question. 
(See  No,  15,  page  117.)  To  returivto  our  main  point.  After  child- 
hood, comes  a  knowledge  of  evil,  or  a  sophisticate  and  unhealthy  mode 
of  life;  or  one  produces  the  other,  and  both  are  embittered.  Every 
thing  tells  us  to  get  back  to  a  state  of  childhood,— pain,  pleasure, 
imagination,  reason,  passion,  natural  affection  or  piety,  the  better  part 
of  religion.  If  knowledge  is  supposed  to  be  incompatible  with  it, 
knowledge  would  sacrifice  herself,  if  necessary,  to  the  same  cause,  for 
she  also  tells  us  to  do  so.  But  as  a  little  knowledge  first  leads  us 
away  from  happiness,  so  a  greater  knowledge  may  be  destined  to  bring 
us  back  into  a  finer  region  of  it, 

KNOWLEDGE   AND   UNHAPPINESS. 

It  is  not  knowledge  that  makes  us  happy  as  we  grow  up,  but  the 
knowledge  of  unhappincss.  Yet  as  unhappiness  existed  when  we 
knew  it  not,  it  becomes  us  all  to  be  acquainted  with  it,  that  we  may 
all  have  the  chance  of  bettering  the  condition  of  our  species.  Who 
would  say  to  himself,  "  I  would  be  happy,  though  all  my  fellow-crea- 
tures were  miserable?"  Knowledge  must  heal  what  it  wounds,  and 
extend  the  happiness  which  it  has  taken  away.  It  must  do  by  our 
comfort,  as.  a  friend  may  do  by  one's  books;  enrich  it  with  its 
comments.  One  man  grows  up  and  gets  unhealthy  without  know- 
ledge ;  another,  with  it.  The  former  sutlers  and  does  uot  know  why. 
lie  is  unhappy,  and  he  sees  unhappiness,  but  he  can  do  nothing 
either  for  himself  or  others.  The  latter  suffers,  and  discovers  why. 
He  suffers  even  more,  because  he  knows  more  ;  but  he  learns  also  how 
to  diminish  sutfering  in  others.  He  learns  too  to  apply  his  knowledge 
to  his  own  case  ;  and  he  sees  that  as  he  himself  suffers  from  the  world's 
Avant  of  knowledge,  so  the  progress  of  knowledge  would  take  away 
both  the  world's  sufferings  and  his  own;  The  efforts  to  this  end 
worry  him  perhaps,  and  make  hira  sickly;  upon  which,  thinking  is 
pronounced  to  be  injurious  to  health.  And  it  may  be  so,  under  these 
circumstances.  What  then,  if  it  betters  the  health  of  the  many  ? 
But  thinking  may  also,  teach  him  how  to  be  healthier.  A  game  of 
cricket  on  a  green  may  do  for  him,  what  no  want  of  thought  would 
have  done  :  and  on  tlie  otlier  liaiidj  if  he  slisws  a  wuiit  of  thought  upon 


^88  THE  INDICATOR. 

these  points,  then  the  inference  is  easy :  he  is  not  so  thinking  a  man  as 
you  took  him  for.  Addison  should  have  got  on  horseback,  instead  of 
walking  up  and  down  a  room  in  his  house,  with  a  bottle  of  wine  at 
each  end  of  it.  Shakspeare  divided  his  time  between  town  and  coun- 
try, and  in  the  latter  part  of  his  life,  built,  and  planted,  and  petted  his 
daughter  Susanna.  Solomon  in  his  old  age  played  the  Anacreon  ;  and 
with  Milton's  leave,  "  his  wisest  heart"  was  not  so  much  out  in  this 
matter,  as  when  his  royal  impatience  induced  him  to  say  that  every 
thing  was  vanity. 

CHILDHOOD — OLD    AGE — OUR   DESTINY.  ' 

There  appears  to  be  something  in  the  composition  of  humanity  like 
what  we  have  observed  in  that  of  music.  The  musician's  first  thought  is 
apt  to  be  his  finest :  he  must  carry  it  on,  and  make  a  second  part  to  his 
air;  and  he  becomes  inferior.  Nature  in  like  manner  (if  we  may  speak  it 
without  profaneness)  appears  to  succeed  best  in  making  childhood  and 
youth.  The  symphony  is  a  little  perturbed  ;  but  in  what  a  sprightly 
manner  the  air  sets  off!  What  purity  !  What  grace  !  What  touch- 
ing simplicity  !  Then  comes  sin,  or  the  notion  of  it,  an;!  "  breaks  the 
fair  music."  Well  did  a  wiser  than  "  the  wisest  heart"  bid  us  try  and 
continue  children.  But  there  are  foolish  as  well  as  wise  children,  and 
it  is  a  special  mark  of  the  former,  whether  little  or  grown,  to  affect 
manhood,  and  to  confound  it  with  cunning  and  violence. — Do  men  die, 
in  order  that  life  and  its  freshness  may  be  as  often  and  as  multitu- 
dinously  renewed  as  possible  ?  Or  do  children  grow  old,  that  our 
consciousness  may  attain  to  some  better  mode  of  being  through  a  rough 
path  ?  Superstition  answers  otiiy  to  perplex  us,  and  make  us  partial. 
Nature  answers  nothing.  But  Nature's  calm  and  resolute  silence  tells 
us  at  once  to  hope  for  the  future,  and  to  do  our  best  to  enjoy  the  pre- 
sent. What  if  it  is  the  aim  of  her  workmajiship  to  produce  self-moving 
instruments,  that  may  carry  forward  their  own  good  ?  "  A  modest 
thought,"  you  will  say.  Yet  it  is  more  allied  to  some  doctrines  cele- 
brated for  their  humility,  then  you  may  suppose.  Vanity,-  in  specula- 
tions earnest  and  affectionate,  is  a  charge  to  be  made  only  by  vanity. 
What  has  it  to  do  with  them  ? 

ENDEAVOUR. 

Either  this  world  (to  use  the  style  of  Marcus  Antoninus)  is  meant 
to  be  what  it  is,  or  it  is  not.  If  it  is  not,  (hen  our  endeavours  to  ren- 
der it  otherwise  are  right  : — if  it  is,  then  we  must  be  as  we  are,  and 
seek  excitement  through  the  same  means,  and  pur  endeavours  are  still 
right.  In  either  case,  endeavour  is  good  and  useful ;  but  iu  one  of 
them,  the  want  of  it  must  be  a  mistake.  . 

GOOD    AKD    EVIL. 

Nature  is  justified  (to  speak  humanly)  in  the  ordinary  state  of  the 
world,  granting  it  is  never  to  be  made  better,  because  the  snm  of  good 
upon  the  whole  is  greater  than  that  of  evil.  For  in  the  list  of  goods 
we  are  not  only  to  rank  all  the  more  obvious  pleasures  which  we  agree 
to  call  such,  but  much  th'^^t  h  ranked  under  the  head  of  mere  excite- 


THE  INDICATOR.  389 

ment^  taking  hope  for  the  ground  of  it,  and  action  for  the  nneans.  But 
We  have  no  right,  on  that  account,  to  abstain  from  endeavouring  to 
better  the  condition  oF  our  species,  were  it  only  for  the  Sake  of  iudi- 
fidiial  suifering.  Nature,  who  is  infinite,  has  a  right  to.  act  in  the 
gross.  Nothing  but  an  infinite  suifering  should  make  her  stop  ;  and 
that  should  make  her  stop,  were  the  individual  who  infinitely  suffered 
the  only  inhabitant  of  his  hell.  Heaven  and  Earth  should  petition  t6 
be  abolished,  rather  than  that  one  such  monstrosity  should  exist :  it  is 
the  absurdest  as  well  as  most  impious  of  all  the  dreams  of  fear.  To 
suppose  that  a  Divine  Being  can  sympathize  with  our  happiness,  is  to 
suppose  that  he  can  sympathize  with  our  misery  ;  but  to  suppose  that 
he  can  sympathize  with  misery,  and  yet  suffer  infinite  misery  to  exist, 
rather  than  put  an  end  to  misery  and  happiness  together,  is  to  contra- 
dict his  sympathy  with  happiness,  and  to  make  him  prefer  a  positive 
evil  to  a  negative  one,  the  existence  of  torment  to  the  cessation  of  feeling. 
As  nature  therefore,  if  considered  at  all,  must  be  considered  as  regu- 
lated in  her  operations,  though  infinite,  v/e  must  look  to  fugitive  suf- 
fering as  nature  must  guard  against  permanent;  she  carves  out  our 
work  for  u«  in  the  gross  :  we  must  attend  to  it  in  the  detail.  To  leave 
every  thing  to  her,  would  be  to  settle  into  another  mode  of  existence, 
or  stagnate  into  drtith.  If  it  be  said  that  she  will  take  care  of  us  at  all 
events,  we  answer,  first,  that  she  does  uot  do  so  in  the  ordinary  details 
of  life,  neither  earns  our  food  for  us,  nor  washes  our  bodies,  nor  writes 
our  books  ;  secondly,  that  of  things  useful-lookingand  uncertain,  she  in- 
cites us  to  know  the  profit  and  probability  ;  and  thirdly,  (as  we  have 
hinted  in  a  previous  observation),  that  not  knowing  how  far  we  may 
carry  on  the  impulse  of  improvement,  towards  which  she  has  given  us 
a  bias,  it  becomes  us  on  every  ground,  both  of  ignorance  and  wisdom, 
to  try. 

DEGRADING   IDEAS    OF    DEITY. 

The  superstitious,  in  their  contradictory  representations  of  God, 
call  him  virtuous  and  benevolent  out  of  the  same  passion  of  fear  as 
induces  them  to  make  liim  such  a  tyrant.  They  think  they  shall  be 
damned  if  they  do  not  believe  him  the  tyrant  he  is  described : — they 
think  they  shall  be  damned  also,  if  they  do  not  gratuitously  ascribe  to 
him  the  virtues  incompatible  with  damnation.  i3eing  so  unworthy  of 
praise,  they  think  he  will  be  particularly  angry  at  not  being  praised. 
They  shudder  to  think  themselves  better,  and  hasten  to  make  amends 
for  it  by  declaring  themselves^as  worthless  as  he  is  worthy. 

GREAT   DISTINCTION   TO    BE   MADE    IN    BIGOTS. 

There  are  two  sorts  of  religious  bigots,  the  unheathy  and  the  un- 
feeling. The  fear  of  the  former  is  mixed  with  humanity,  and  they 
never  succeed  in  thinking  themselves  favourites  of  God,  but  their  sense 
of  security  is  embittered,  by  aversions  which  they  dare  not  own  ta 
themselves,  and  terror  for  the  fate  of  those  who  are  not  so  lucky.  The 
unfeeling  bigot  is  a  mere  unimaginative  animal,  whose  thoughts  are 
confined  to  the  snugness  of  his  own  kennel,  and  who  would  have  a 
good  one  in  the  next  world  as  well  as  iu  this.     He  secures  a  place  ia 


390  THE  INDICATOR. 

heaven  as  he  does  in  -the  Manchester  coach  or  a  Margate  hoy.  Never 
mind  who  sufters  outside,  woman  or  child.  We  once  found  ourselves 
by  accident  on  hoard  a  hoy,  which  professes  to  "  sail  by  Divine  Pro- 
vidence." Walking  about  the  deck  at  night  to  get  rid  of  the  chilliness 
■which  would  occasionally  visit  our  devotions  to  the  starry  heavens  and 
the  sparkling  sea,  our  foot  caqie  in  contact  with  something  white, 
-which  was  lying  gathered  up  in  aheap.  Upon  stooping  down,  we  found 
it  to  be  a  woman.  The  methodists  had  secured  all  the  beds  below, 
and  were  not  to  be  disturbed. 

SUPERSTITIOW   THE   FLATTERER  OF   REASOIV. 

We  are  far  from  thinking  that  reason  can  settle  every  thing.  We 
no  more  think  so,  than  that  our  eyesight  can  see  into  all  existence. 
But  it  does  not  follow,  on  that  account,  thSt  we  are  to  take  for  granted 
the  extremest  contradictions  of  reason.  Why  should  we  ?  We  do 
not  even  think  well  enough  of  reason  to  do  so.  For  hern  is  one  of  the 
secrets  of  superstition.  It  is  so  angry  at  reason  for  not  being  able  to 
settle  every  thing,  that  it  runs  in  despair  into  the  arms  of  irrationality. 

GOOD   IN    THINGS    EVIL, 

"  God  Almij;Iity  ! 
Tliere  in  a  soul  of  {goodness  in  ihingsevil, 
AVoiild  men  observiiigly  distil  il  oiii  f 

So,  with  equal  wisdom  and  good-nature,  does  Shakspcare  make  one  of 
his  characters  exclaim.  Suffering  gives  strength  to  sympathy.  IJate 
of  the  particular  may  have  a  foundation  in  love  for  the  general.  The 
lowest  and  most  wilful  vice  may  plunge  deeper,  out  of  a  regret  of  virtue. 
Even  in  envy  may  be  discerned  something  of  an  instinct  of  justice, 
something  of  a  wish  to  see  unlversjil  fair  play,  and  things  on  a  level.— 
*'  But  there  is  still  a  residuum  of  evil,  of  w  hich  we  should  all  wish  to 
get  rid,"— Well  then,  let  us  try. 

ARTIFICE    OF    EXAGGERATED    COMPLAINT. 

Disappointment  likes  to  make  out  bad  to  be  worse  than  it  Ts,  in 
order  to  relieve  the  gnawing  of  its  actual  wound.  It  would  confuse 
the  limits  of  its  pain ;  and  by  extending  it  too  far,  try  to  make  itself 
uncertain  bow  far  it  reached. 

CUSTOM,    ITS   SELF-RECONCILEMENTS    AND    CONTRADICTIONS. 

Custom  is  seen  more  in  what  we  bear  than  what  we  enjoy.  And 
yet  a  pain  long  borne,  so  fits  itself  to  our  shoulders,  that  we  do  not 
miss  even  that  without  disquietude.  The  novelty  of  the  sensation 
startles  us.  Montaigne,  like  our  modern  beaux,  was  uneasy  when  he 
did  not  feel  himself  well  braced  up  and  tightened  in  his  clothing. 
Prisoners  have  been  known  to  wish  to  go  back  to  their  prisons  ;  inva- 
lids have  missed  the  accompaniment  of  an  old  gun  shot  wound  ;  and 
the  world  is  apt  to  be  veiy  angry  with  reformers  and  innovators,  nolt 
because  it  is  in  the  right,  but  because  it  is  accustomsd  to  be  in  the 
wrong.  This  is  a  good  thing,  and  shews  the  indestructible  tendency 
of  nature  to  forego  its  troubles.  But  then  reformers  and  innovators 
must  arise,  upon  that  very  ground.     To  quarrel  with  them  upon  a 


THE  INDKIATOR.  391 

principle  of  avowed  spleen,  is  candid  and  has  a  self-knowledge  in  it. 
But  to  resent  tliemas  impertinent  or  effeminate,  is  at  bottom  to  quarrel 
with  fehe  principle  of  one's  own  patience,  and  to  set  the  fear  of  moving 
above  the  courage  of  it. 

ADVICE. 

It  has  been  well  observed,  that  advice  is  not  disliked  because  it  is 
advice,  but  because  so  few  people  know  hovv  to  give  it.  Ytt  there  are 
people  vain  enough  to  hate  it  in  proportion  to  its  very  agreeableness. 

HAPPINESS,    HOW   WE  FOREGO    IT. 

By  the  same  reason  for  which  we  call  this  earth  a  Vale  of  Tears,  we 
might  call  heaven  when  we  got  there  a  Hill  of  Sighs:  for  upon  the 
principle  of  an  endless  progression  of  beatitude,  we  might  find  a^tilL 
ijetter  heaven  promised  us,  and  this  would  be  enough  to  make  us  dis- 
satisfied with  the  one  in  possession.  Suppose  that  we  have  previously 
existed  in  the  planet  Mars;  that  there  are  no  fields  and  trees  there, 
and  that  we  nevertheless  could  imagine  them  and  were  in  the  habit  of 
anticipating  their  delight  in  the  next  'world.  Suppose  that  there  was 
no  such  thing  there  as  a  stream  of  air,  as  a  wind  fanning  one's  face  for 
a  whole  summer's  day.  What  a  romantic  thing  to  fancy  !  What  a 
beatitude  to  anticipate !  Suppose  above  all  that  there  was  no  such 
thing  as  love.  Words  would  be  lost  in  anticipating  that.  '' Eye  hath 
not  seen,  nor  ear  heard"  &c.  Yet  when  we  got  to  this  heaven  of 
green  fields  and  fresh  airs,  we  might  take  little  notice  of  either,  for 
want  of  something  more ;  and  even  love  we  might  contrive  to  spoil 
pretty  odiously. 


THE  HAMADRYAD.* 


An  Assyrian  of  the  name  of  Rhaicus  observing  a  fine  old  oak>tree 
ready  to  fall  with  age,  ordered  it  to  be  sustained  with  props.  He  was 
continuing  his  way  through  the  solitary  skirts  of  the  place,  when  a 
nymph  of  more  than  human  look,  appeared  before  him,  with  gladness 
in  her  eyes.  "  Rhoecus,"  said  she,  "  I  am  the  Nymph  of  the  tree 
which  you  have  saved  from  perishing.  My  life  is,  of  course,  .impli- 
cated in  its  own.  But  for  you,  my  existence  must  have  terminated^ 
But  for  you,  the  sap  would  have  ceased  to  flow  through  its  boughsi, 
and  the  godlike  essence  I  received  from  it  to  animate  these  veins.  No 
more  shoiild  I  have  felt  the  wind  in  my  hair,  the  sun  upon  my  cheeks^ 
or  the  balmy  rain  upon  my  body.  Now  I  shall  feel  them  many  years 
to  come.  Many  years  also  will  your  fellow-creatures  sit  under  my 
shade,  and  hear  the  benignity  of  my  whispers,  and  repay  me  with  their 
honey  and  their  thanks.  Ask  what  I  can  give  you,  Rhaecus,  and  you 
shall  have  it." 

*  See  lli€   Scholiast  upon   ApoUoniua  Rhodias,  or  the  Mythology  of  Natalis 

Comes. 


m  THE  INDICATOR. 

Tfe^  young  man,  -who  hgd  dojie  a  graceful  acfion  but  had  not  thought 
of  its  confaining  so  many  liindiy  things,  received  the  prnises  of  the 
jNymph  -with  a  due  mixture  of  surprise  and  homage.  lie  did  not  want 
courage  however:  and  emboldened  by  her  tone  and  manner,  and  still 
more  by  a  beauty  which  had  all  tbebuxombloom  of  humanity  in  it,  with 
a  praeternatural  gracefulness  besides,  he  requested  that  she  would  re- 
,)peive  him  as  a  lover.  There  was  a  look  in  her  face  at  this  request, 
answering  to  modesty,  but  something  still  finer.  Having  no  guilt,  she 
seemed  to  have  none  of  the  common  infirmities  either  of  shame  or  im>- 
pudence.  In  fine,  she  consented  to  reward  Rha;cus  as  he  wished  ; 
and  said  she  would  send  a  bee  to  iuforw  him  of  the  hour  of  their 
•meeting, 

"Who  now  was  so  delighted  as  Rha^cus  ?  for  he  was  a  great  admirer 
of  the  fair  sex,  and  not  a  little  proud  of  their  admiring  him  ^n  return  ; 
and  no  human  beauty,  whom  he  had  known,  could  compare  with  the 
Hamadryad.  It  must  be  owned  at  the  same  time,  that  his  taste  for 
love  and  beauty  was  not  of  quite  so  exalted  a  description  as  he  took  it 
for.  If  he  was  fond  of  the  fair  sex,  he  was  pr^'tty  nearly  as  fond  of 
dice,  and  feasting,  and  any  other  excitement  which  came  in  his  WAy  ; 
and  unluckily  he  was  throwing  the  dice  that  very  uoon,  when  the  beq 
"leaine  to  summon  him. 

■■' '  He  was  at  a  very  interesting  part  of  the  game, — so  much  so,  that  he 
did  not  at  first  recognize  the  objtrt  of  the  bee's  humming.  "Con- 
found this  bee !"  said  he,  "  it  seems  plaguily  fond  of  me."  He  brushed 
it  away  tw.o  or  three  times,,  but  the  busy  messenger  returned,  and  only 
hummed  the  louder.  At  last,  he  bethought  liim  of  the  Nymph  j  but 
his  impatience  seemed  to  increase  with  his  pride,  and  he  gave  the  poor 
insect  such  a  brush,  as  sent.lxiin  away  crippled  in  both  his  thighs. 

The  bee  returned  to  his  mistress  as  well  as,he  could ;  and  shortly 
after  Avas  followed  by  his  joyous  assailant,  who  came  triumphing  in 
the  success  of  his  dice  and  his  passion.  "  I  am  here,"  said  the  Hama- 
dryad. Rhascus  looked  among  the  trees,  but  could  see  nobody.  "  I 
am  here,"  said  a  grave  sweet  voice,  '•  right  before  you."  Rhae.cus 
saw-  notlung.  "  Alas,"  said  she,  "  Rhajcus,  you  cannot  see  me,  nor 
•will  you  see  me  more.  I  had  thought  better  of  your  discernment  and 
your  kindness;  but  you  were  but  gifted  with  a  momentary  sight  of 
me.  You  will  see  nothing  in  future  but  common  things,  and  those 
sadly.  You  are  struck  blind  to  every  thing  else.  The  hand  that 
•eould  strike  my  bee  with  a  lingering  death,  and  prefer  the  embracing 
'Of  the  dice-box  to  that  of  affectionate  beauty,  is  not  worthy  of  love 
*and  the  green  trees." 

•     The  wind  sighed  off  to  a  distance;  and  Rhcecus  felt  that  he  was 
<alane. 
V '';)  ■  ■{  '  - 


Printed  and  publislipj   by  Joseph  Applkyaud,  No.  19,  Cailirrinn-strpel,  Strand. 
.  Price  2d. — Aiul  sold  also  liy  A.  Gliddon,  buporler  of  Siinfts,  No.  31,  Tavisiock- 
slreet,  CovPiit-fjarden.     Orders  rectived  at  llie  above  pluces,  and   by  all  Beok- 
sellers  and  Newsmen.  . 


THE    INDICATOR 


There  he  arriving  round  about  doth  flie. 
And  takes  survey  with  busie  curious  eye : 
Now  this,  now  that,  he  tasteth  tenderly. 

Sfgnser. 


No.  L— WEDNESDAY,   SEPTEMBER  20tli,  1820. 


THE  NURTURE  OF  TRIPTOLEMUS. 

TiiiPTOLEMUs  was  the  son  of  Celeus  iing  of  Attica,  by  his  wife 
Polymnia.  During  his  youth  he  felt  such  an  ardour  for  knowledge, 
«nd  such  a  desire  to  impart  it  to  his  fellow-creatures,  that  ha,Tiiig  but 
a  slight  frame  for  so  vigorous  a  soul  to  inhabit,  and  meeting  as  usual 
Hvith  a  great  deal  of  jealousy  and  envy  from  those  who  veere  interested 
in  being  thought  wiser,  he  fell  into  a  wasting  illness.  His  flesh  left  his 
bones  •  his  tmn  hands  trembled  when  he  touched  the  harp ;  his  fine 
"Warm  eyes  lookfedstaringly  out  of  their  sockets,  like  stars  that  had 
•shipped  out  bf  their  places  in  heaven. 

At  this  period,  an  extraordinary  "and  awful  sensation  struck,  one 
night,  through  all  the  streets  of  Eleusis.  It  was  felt  both  by  those  who 
slept  and  those  who  were  awake.  The  former  dreamt  great  dreams; 
the  latter,  especially  the  revellers  and  hypocrites  who  were  pursuing 
their  profane  orgies,  looked  at  one  another,  and  thought  of  Tripto- 
lemus.  As  to  Triptolemus  himself,  he  shook  in  his  bed  with  exceed- 
ing agitation ;  but  it  was  with  a  pleasure  that  overcame  him  like  pain. 
He  knew  not  how  to  account  for  it ;  but  he  begged  his  father  to  go 
out,  and  meet  whatever  was  coming;  He  felt  that  some  extraordinary 
good  was  approaching,  both  for  himself  and  his  fellow-creatures ;  but 
revenge  was  never  farther  from  his  thoughts.  What  was  he  to  revenge  ? 
Mistake  and  unhappiness?  He  was  too  wise,  too  kind,  and  too  suf- 
fering. "  Alas !  thought  he,  an  unknown  joy  shakes  me  like  a  palpable 
sorrow  ;  and  their  minds  are  but  as  weak  as  my  body.  They  cannot 
hesLt  a  touch  they  are  not  accustomed  to." 


394  THE  INDICATOR. 

The  king,  his  wife,  and  his  daughters  went  out,  trembling,  though 
not  so  much  as  Triptolemus,  nor  with  the  same  feeling.  There  was  a 
great  light  in  the  air,  which  moved  gradually  towards  them,  and  seemed 
to  be  struck  upwards  from  something  in  the  street.  Presently,  two 
gigantic  torches  appeared  round  the  corner;  and  underneath  them, 
sitting  in  a  car,  and  looking  earnestly  about,  sat  a  mighty  female,  of 
more  than  ordinary  size  and  beauty^  Her  large  black  eyes,  with  their 
gigantic  brows  b^n^  over  thern^  f^nd  surjoioupted  with  a  white  forehead 
and  a  profusion  of  hair,  looked  here  and  there  with  an  intentness  and 
a  depth  of  yearning,  indescribable.  "  Chaire,  Demeter!"  exclaimed 
the  king,  in  a  loud  voice:—"  Hail,  creative  mother!''  He  raised  the 
cry  common  at  festivals,  when  they  imagined  a  deity  manifesting  him- 
self;  and  the  priests  poured  out  of  their  dwellings,  with  vestment  and 
with  incense,  which  they  held  tremblingly  aloft,  turning  down  their 
pale  faces  from  the  gaze  of  the  passing  goddess. 

It  was  Ceres  looking  for  her  lost  daughter  Proserpina.  The  eye  of 
the  deity  seemed  to  have  a  greater  severity  in  its  earnestness,  as  she 
passed  by  the  priests, ;  Jljutiit  sight  of -a.  chorus  of  youths  ^nd  .damsels, 
who  dared  to  lift  up  their  eyes  as  well  as  voices,  she  gave  Such'  a  beau- 
tiful smile  as  none  but  gods  In  sorrow  can  give  ;  and  emboldened  with 
this,  the  king  and  his  family  prayed  her  to  accept  their  hospitality. 

She  did  so.  A  temple  in  the  king's  palace  was  her  chamber,  where 
she  lay  on  the  golden  bed  usually  assigned  to  her  image.  The  most 
precious  fruits  and  perfumes  burnt  constitntly  at  thq  door  ;  and  at  first 
no  hymns  were  sung  but  those  of  homage  and  condolence.  But  these 
ti|e  goddess  commanded  t-o  be  changed  foE  happier  spngs  ;  and  word 
^•as  ai^jCj  gj¥ej^  to  the  city  th^t  it  should  remit  Mb  fears  and  its  Gj^rgr, 


shew  all 


V  Jor,?'  said 


I  the  happiness '^f  wlfiph  it  was  eaps^bl^  before  she-  ar?iyt|4» 
d  slije,  "  the  yoic^  ojT,  ^g.ppine&s  arising  f copa  e£^-|h  is  a  god'$ 


incfjnse.  ^^^  deity  lives  betteif  on.  the  plef^spr^  ffi  M^%t  it  Jj^ 
^j[;e^f.^jd,  thf^n  iq  a  return  of.  q.  pa^vtpf  itsgifts.?'  ;  ■  jifoi.c:  '  ;  •  cl  . 
.jj,:Suc]^  w^ re  the  pip-xjii}^  ^vhiph  peres  deligjit^d  tp' ^ttfr  4^"ng  hftr 
fiti?*??.?/  .^te^^l^j  5*^4  >y:iiiP-h  ^.fterwfipds  formed  thp  lessencp  pf  h/sr  r?)- 
nowned  mysteries  at  that  place..  But  thp  biS9t?5  V^Q  cifterw^iidir 
^^pted  aud  injured  them,  hpiiril  them  liyith  dismay;  fpr  they  were 
^Ifiijilaj  t^  iwhat  young  TrJp|olemus  hf^d  uttered,  in  the  aspjratij>ns  oC 
hiSYirtf^e.  '  The  rest  of  tl^e  inhabitants  gave  themselyes  up  to  the  jay, 
fflpm  l^h^H  th^  divinity  woqld  oiiiy  extract  consolation,  Thpy 
'^anqed,  tf^ejf  wedded,  they  |oyed  ;  t|iey  praised  her  in  hymus  a^  chpar^ 
fi).l  as. h^E  ij^tfiral  temper;  tljey  4jd  gi-eat  and  glprious  things  fpr  oj^e 
^ftother:  i^pver  was  Attica  S|ofull  of  true  joy  ^nd  heripsin  :  the  young 
jqiCff  &pi|jgh,t  ev^ry  den  and  feJirful  plq^pf  in  the  tprrit^ry,  t.o,;SQP  if  f*fQr 
^^{yj^i|i^  wa§  thej;e ;  and  the  damsels  yied  wHp  shouM  give  thtm;  P)Q84 
ji|spes,fpE  their.r.ewarxl.  "  Qh  E^fiar^st.  ?ind  Pivinpsfc  iVIp^h^' I"  >ong 
t^e  ^levisifiians,  as  ,tl\(^  surrounded;  ;thp  king's  PJlJacq  at  night  ,wti& 
t|^ejr,pypqif}g  hymn: — "  Q  grQatest  ^odib^st  goddess,  who  jiQfc  »bpyf> 
^c^rrpvp  thy?^elf,  art  yet  above  all,  >yjs^;tp  inflict  it,  wp  kypw  bjH  t-bip 
^^j,t^Q)i,,frt  indeed  divine.  >You]d  ttat  we  might  restpr.^  th^g,  thy 
beloved  daughter,  thy  daughter  Prosprpin?,  the  da.»"kj  th«  bf!i.Pirtfill>  tU^ 


THE  mmcATOR;  sos 

motlier-loVlng;  w^om  S6rfife  gcTdj  fess-^lftslfeaS'  thkrt  IhySelfy  'wtftild 
keep'  for  fife  oWn  jValou*  (loafing.  Woill'^Afe  ttight  see  her  in  tMrt^ 
il^iiis!  We  would  wKIirtgly  die  far  tfire  sight;  ^ould  willingly  di>e 
•with  the  only  pleasure  which  thou  hast  left  \*'a'ftting  to  trs."  ''■■-■  ■'■'■■"' 
Th6  goddess  would  we^p  at  these  twilight- hythns,  cOnSsollng'hierMf 
for  the  absence  of  P^-dfeerpina  by  thitiklhg  how  many  daughtei's  she 
Bad  made  happy.  Triptoleraus  shed  -iveaker  tears  *t  .t'hoin  ifl  hts 
secret  bed,  but  the ji^  were  happier  ones  thart  befofei  "  J  shall  dife," 
thought  he^  *'  merely  frorti  the  bitter-s\reet  joy  of  sfeeiiig  the  growth  of 
a  happiness  which  I  must  never  taste  ;  but  the  days  I  longed  for  have 
rfrriVeS.  Would  that  iny  father  would  only  speak  to  the  goddess,  that 
my  pas^g6  to  tbe  grave  might  be  a  little  easier  !"  ■  - 

The  father  doubted  whether  he  should  speak  to -the  goddess.  H6 
loved  his  son  warmly,  though  he  did  not  well  understand  him ;  and 
the  mother,  iri  spite  of  all  the  goddess's  kindness,  was  afraid  lest  ift- 
telling  her  of  a  child  whom  they  were  about  to  lose,  they  should  re-- 
miijd  her  too  forcibly  of  her  own.  Yet  the  mother,  in  an  agony  of 
alarm  one  day,  at  a  fainting  fit  of  her  son's,  was  the  first  to  resolve  to 
speak  to  her  ;  and  the  king  and  she  With  pale  and  agitated  faces,  went 
aiid  prostrated  themselves  at  her  feet.  "  What  is  this,  kind  hosts  ?" 
said  Ceres,  "  have  ye  too  lost  a  daughter  ?"  "  No  ;  but  we  shall  lose 
a:  son,"  answered  the  parents,  "  but  for  the  help  of  heaven."  "  A  son  !" 
Replied  Ceres:  "  why  did  you  not  tell  me  your  son  was  living ?  I 
had  htea-rd  6f  him,^  and  wished  to  see  him;  but  never  finding  him 
among  yf^  Igues&ed  that  he  was  no  more,  and  I  would  not  trouble 
yotiWilh  Such  a'Tnemory.  But  why  did  ye  fear  mine,  \t^hen  J  could 
do  good?  Did  your  son  fear  it  r" — ''No  indeed,"  satd  the  parents  ; 
*';  he  urg*d  US  to  tell  thee.''—-"  He  is  the  being  I  took,  hinv  for,"  re- 
turned the  goddess  :  "  lead  me  to  Avhere  he  liesl." 

They  came  to  his  chamber,  and  found  him  kneeling  up  on.  the  bed, 
his  face  and  joined  hands  benditig  towards  the  door.  He  had  felt  the 
approach  of  the  deity;  and  though  he  shook  in  every  limb,  it  was  a 
transport  beyond -fear  that  made  him  rise :  it  was  love  and  gratitude. 
The  goddess  saw  it ;  and  bent  on  him  a  look  that  put  composure  in  his 
shattered  nerves.  "What-  wantest  thotf/'  said, she,  "  strilggler  with 
gieat  thoughts  ?"  "  'Nothing,"  answered  Triptokmus,  "  if  thou 
thinkest  it  good,  but  a  shorter  and  easier  death."  "What?  Before: 
thy  task  is  doner"  "  Fate,"  he  replied,  "  seems  to  tell  me' that  i' 
Was  riot  fitted  for  my  task,  and  it  is  more  than  done  since  thoti  art? 
here.  I  pray  thee,  let  me  die;  that  I  may  not  see  every  one  around' 
rae  weeping  in  the  midst  of  joy  at  my  disease,  and  yet  riot  hare 
strength  enough  left  in  tny  hands  to  wipe  away  their  tears."  "Not 
so^  my  child,"  said  the  goddess,''  and  her  grand  harmonions  voice  had" 
tears  in  itj  as  she  spoke;  "not  so,  Triptolemus  ;.  for  my  task  Is  thy' 
task;  and  even  gods  work  with  instruments.  Thou  hast  not  gone' 
tlirough  all  thy  trials-  yet;  but  thou  shalt  have  abetter  covering  to" 
tear  them  :  yet  still  by  degrees.  Gradual  sorrow,  gradual  joy." 
-  So  saying,  she  pat  her  hand  to  his  heart,  and  pressed  it  ;^  and  the 
a«g4{ati<)it  of  hjs  sjjirit  was  further  allayed,  though  he  returned  to  his 


996  THE  INDICATOR. 

reclining  posture  for  weakness.  From  that  time,  the  bed  of  Tripto* 
lemus  was  removed  into  the  temple,  and  Ceres  herself  became  his 
second  mother.  But  nobody  knew  how  she  nourished  him.  |t  was 
said,  that  she  summoned  milk  into  her  bosom,  and  nourished  him  ^t 
her  inimortal  heart,  as  though  he  had  been  newly  born  in  heaven. 
But  he  did  not  grow  taller  in  stature,  as  men  expected.  His  health 
was  restored:  his  joints  were  knit  again,  and  stronger  than  ever  ;  but 
he  continued  the  same  small,  though  graceful  youth  ;  only  the  sicklier 
particles  which  he  had  received  from  his  parents  withdrew  their  wast- 
ing influence. 

At  last  however,  his  very  figure  began  to  grow  and  expand.  .Up  to 
this  moment,  he  had  only  been  an  interesting  mortal,  in  whom  the 
stoutest  and  best-made  of  his  father's  subjects  recognized  something 
mentally  superior.  Now,  he  began  to  look  in  person  as  well  as  ia' 
mind  a  demigod.  The  curiosity  of  the  parents  was  roused  at  this 
appearance  ;  and  it  was  heightened  by  the  report  of  a  domestic,  who 
said  that  in  passing  the  door  of  the  temple  one  night,  she  heard  a  sound 
as  of  a  mighty  fire.  But  their  parental  feelings  were  also  excited  by 
the  behaviour  of  Trlptolemus,  who,  while  he  seemed  to  rise  with  double 
cheerfulness  in  the  morning,  always  began  to  look  melancholy  towards 
nightfall.  For  some  hours' before  he  retired  to  rest,  he  grew  silent, 
a:nd  looked  more  and  mote  thoughtful ;  though  nothing  could  be- 
kinder  in  his  manners  to  every  body,  and  the  hoar  no  sooner 
approached  for  his  retiring,  than  he  went  instantly  and  even  chear-. 
fully. 

His  parents  resolved  to  watch.     They  knew  not  Avhat  they  were- 
Jtbout,  or  they  would  have  abstained  :  for  Ceres  was  every  night  at  hei*! 
enchaptments  to  render  their  son  immortal  in  being  as  well  as  fame  ; 
and  interruption  would  be  fatal.     At  midnight,  they  listened  at  the 
temple-door.  -■:■     .    ,  ;;  ^      r.  T 

The  first  thing  they  heard  was  the  roaring  noise  of  fire,:  as  had  been' 
reported.  It  was  deep  and  fierce.  They  were  about  to  retire  for 
fear;  but  curiosity  and  parental  feeling  prevailed.  They  listened 
again ;  but  for  some  time  heard  nothing  but  the  fire.  At  last,  a  voice, 
resembling  their  child's,  gave  a  deep  groan.  "  It  was  a  strong  trial, 
my  son,"  said  another,  in  which  they  recognized  the  melancholy  sweet- 
ness of  the  goddess.  "  The  grandeur  and  exceeding  novelty  of  these  i 
visions,"  said  the  fainter  voice,  "  press  upon  me,  as  though  they  would- 
bear  down  my  brain."  "  But  they  do  not,"  returned  the  deity,  "  and 
they  have  not.  I  wiU  summon  the  next."  "  Nay,  not  yet,"  rejoined 
the  mortal;  "  yet  be  it  as  thou  wilt.  I  know  Avhat  tliou  tellcst  me, 
great  and  kind  mother."—"  Thou  dost  know,"  said  the  goddess, 
*'  and  thou  knowest  in  the  very  heart  of  thy  knowledge,  which  is  in 
the  sympathy  of  it  and  the  love.  Thou  seest  that  difference  is  not  dif- 
ference, and  yet  is  so ;  that  the  same  is  not  the  same,  and  yet  must  be  ; 
that  what  is,  is  but  what  we  see,  and  as  we  see  it ;  and  yet  that  which 
we  see,  is.  Thou  shalt  prove  it  finally  ;  and  this  is  the  last  trial  buti 
one.  Vision,  come  forth."  A  noise  here  took  place,  as  of  the  en- 
trance of   something   exceeding    hurried   and  agonized,    but   which 


THE  INDICATGiJ.  397. 

remained  fixed  with  equal  stillness.  A  brief  pause  took  place,  at  the 
end  of  which  the  listeners  heard  their  son  speak,  but  in  a  voice  of 
exceeding  toil  and  loathing,  and  as  if  he  turned  away  his  head  : — "  It 
is,"  said  he,  gasping  for  breath,  "  utmost  deformity."  *'  Only  to 
thine  habitual  eyes,  and  when  alone,"  said  the  goddess,  in  a  soothing 
and  earnest  manner :—"  look  again!"  "  Oh  my  heart!"  said  the 
same  voice,  gasping  as  if  with  transport,  *'  they  are  perfect  beauty 
and  humanity."  "  They  are  only  two  of  the  same,"  said  the  god- 
dess, "  each  going  out  of  itself.  Deformity  to  the  eyes  of  habit 
is  nothing  but  analysis;  in  essence  it  is  nothing  but  one-ness,  if, 
such  a  thing  there  be.  The  touch  and  the  result  is  every  thing. 
See  what  a  goddess  knows,  and  see  nevertheless  what  she  feels :^' 
in  this  only  greater  then  mortals,  that  she  lives  for  ever  to  do 
good.  Now  comes  the  last  and  greatest  trial  :  now  shalt  fhou 
see  the  real  worlds  as  they  are;  now  shalt  thou  behold  tJiem 
lapsing  in  reflected  splendour  about  the  blackness  of  space  ;  now  shalt 
thou  dip  thine  ears  into  the  mighty  ocean  of  their  harmonies,  and  be 
able  to  be  touched  with  the  concentrated  love  of  the  universe.  Roar 
heavier,  fire;  endure,  endure,  thou  immortalizing  frame."  *'  Yes, 
now,  now,"  said  the  other  voice,  in  a  superhumam  tone,  which  the 
listeners  knew  not  Avh^-ther  to  think  joy  or  anguish  ;  but  their  minds 
were  so  much  more  full  of  the  latter,  that  they  opened  a  place  from 
which  the  priestess  used  to  speak  at  the  lintel,  and  looked  in.  The 
mother  beheld  her  son,  stretched,  with  a  face  of  bright  agony,  upon 
burning  coals.  She  shrieked;  and  pitch  darkness  .fell  upon  the; 
temple,  and  all  about  it.  "  A  little  while,''  said  the  mournful  voice 
of  1  he  goddess  "and  heaven  had  had  another  life.  Oh  Fear!  what 
'does  thou  not  do  !  Oh  may  all  but  divine  boy,"  continued  she,  "  now 
plunged  again  into  physical  darkness,  thou  canst  not  do  good  so  long 
as  thou  vvouldst  have  done,  but  thou  shalt  have  a  life  almost  as  long 
ds  the' commonest  sons  of  men,  and  a  thousand  times  more  useful  and' 
glorious.  Thou  must  change  away  the  rest  of  tliy  particles,  as  others 
do;  and  in  the  process  of  time,  they  may  meet  again  under  some 
nature  worthy  of  thee,  and  give  thee  another  chance  for  yearning  into, 
immortality  ;  but  at  present,  the  pain  is  done  ;  the  pleasure  must  not 
arrive." 

The  fright  they  had  undergone,  slew  the  weak  parents.  Tripto- 
leinus,  strong  in  body,  chearful  to  all  in  show,  chearful  to  himself  in 
many  things,  retained  nevertheless  a  certain  melancholy  from  his  re- 
collections ;  but  it  did  not  hinder  him  from  sowing  joy  wherever  he 
Avent.  It  incited  him  but  the  more  to  do  so.  The  success  of  others 
stood  him  instead  of  his  own.  Ceres  gave  him  the  first  seeds  of  the 
corn  that  makes  bread,  and  sent  him  in  her  chariot  round  the  world  to 
teach  men  how  to  use  it.  "  I  am  not  immortal  myself,"  said  he,  "  but 
let  the  good  I  do  be  so,  and  I  shall  yet  die  happy." 


DJSa 


TiiE  INDIGATOR. 


^tIig  aaioTOn'  Is  no\V  confirmetl.'  'the  'yiRrveii%'over I'f^e'siimmeT 
birds  are  gone  or  going;  heavy  rains  have  swept  the  aif  of  its  warmth, 
aftdprepafed  the  earth  for  the  impressions  of  winter.  ><   .';;<n.i?  !<,?>• 

Arid  the  author's  Season  changes  Ukewise..  W«  catena longthr  per- 
stiade  <lrirrSeIVes  that  it  ii summer,  by  dint  of  resolving  to  think  so.  W© 
ciiiUdt  ^arm  otirBelvtS  at  the  look  of  the  sunshine.  Instfead  of  sitting 
at  the  window,  ''hindering'*  ourselveSj  aS  people  say,  with  eajoying 
lite  sight  of  Nature,  we  find  our  knees  turned  round  to  the  fire-place, 
our  face  opposite  a  pictured  instead  of  a  real  landscape,  and  our  feet 
toiasting  op&n;  a  fender.  This  reminds  us  that  \ye  began  our  firsi 
tolurne  of  the  Inbicatou  at  the  same  season  ;  and  that  it  is  now  vergj 
in-g  to  a  close.  We  hope  and  indeed  bojiere,  from  what  our  reader* 
iJOih  say  aird  do,  that  they  have  been  as  iriiich  J)leased  with  encdunier-' 
ing  its  "'  shining  morning  face"  every  week,  as  we  hare  been  in  sending 
it  forth  ; — ^a  great  deal  more  so,  we  trust,  occasionally.  Half  as  much 
so  will  have  done  at  some  other  times,  when  we  have  been  in  high 
spirits,  a^nd  flattered  ourselves  that  we  made  the  school-boy  vrcbiai 
look  handsome.  -     ;;;!;ri.'f 

When  some  enjoyments  go,  others  come.  The  boys  wilt  now  be> 
gathering  th<ir  rlutS.  The  trees  will  put  forth,  in  their  bravely-dying 
leaves,  all  the  colours  of  heaven  and  earth  wKich  thoy  have  received 
from  SOB,  and  i.aioj  and  soil.  Nature,  in  her  heaps  of  grain  and 
berries,  will  set  before  the  animal  creation  as  profuse  and  luxurious  a 
fipas^,  as  any  of  outr  loi-dly  palates  hare  received  from  tart  and  desert. 

N^tirre  with  the  help  of  a  very  little  art,  can  put  forth  a  prettier  bill- 
of  fdre,  than  most  persons,  if  people  will  but  persuade  each  other  that 
clieapriess  is  as  good  as  dearness  ;-^a  discovery,  we  think,  to  which  the' 
tax-gather  might  easily  help  us.  -Let  us  see  what  she  says  this  autumn. 
Imagine  us  seated  at  the  bar  of  a  fashionable  harbour,  or  boxed  in  a 
sylvan  scene  of  Considerable  resort.  Enter,  a  waiter,  the  September 
©rfSpenser,-^that  ingenious  and  oddly-dressed  rogue,  cf  whom  we  are 
Md,  that  when  he  appeared  before  the  poet,  he  was 

Itcavy  laden  whh  tlie  sporlf 
Of  barvesi's  riclies,  which  he  irtade  lits  boot. 

At  prese'nt,  he  assumes  a  more  modest  aspect,  M'ith  a  bunch  of  ash- 
leaves  under  his  arm  by  way  of  duster.  He  bows  like  a  poplar,  draws 
a  west  wind  through  his  teeth  genteelly,  and  lays  before  us  the  follow- 
ing bill  of  entoitainment : — 


THE  INDICATOU,  m9 

Fish,  Infiaite  and  cheap. 

Fruit,  ditto — ditto. 

Nuts,  ditto-T-ditto. 

Bread,  ditto — taxed.  .™.jij0  ...jjij 

Fresh  airs,  ditto — taxed  if  in  doors — not  out.  • 


^l.v 


7/ 


Light,  ditto — ditto. 

Wioe,  in  its  unadulterated  shape,  as  grapes,  or  sunshine,  or  well* 
fermenter  blood. 

Cyder  and  Perry. 

The  Arbours  of  ivy,  wild  honey-suckle,  arhutus,  &c.  all  in  flower. 

Other  flowers  on  table. 

The  anti-room,  with  a  view  into  it,  immense,  with  a  sky-blue 
cupola,  and  hung  round  with  with  landscapes  confessedly  inimitable,   . 

Towards  the  conclusion,  a  vocal  concert  among  the  trees. 

At  night,  falling  stars,  and  a  striking  panoramic  view  of  the  heavens* 
on  which  occasion  for  a  few  nights  only,  the  same  moon  will  be  in- 
troduced, that  was  admired  by  the  "  immortal  Shakspeare  ! ! !" 

N.  B.  It  is  reported  by  some  malignant  persons,  that  the  bud- 
concert  is  not  artificial:  whereas  it  will  be  found,  upon  the  smallest 
inspection,  to  beat  even  the  most  elaborate  inveatioas  of  the  justly 
admired  Signor  Mecanical  Fello. 


Ah,  dear  friend,  as  valued  a  one  as  thou  art  a  poet, — John  Keats,— 
we  cannot,  after  all,  find  it  in  our  hearts  to  be  glad,  now  thou  art  gone 
away  with  the  swallows  to  seek  a  kindlier  clime.  The  rains  began 
fo  fall  heavily,  the  moment  thou  wast  to  go ; — we  do  not  say,  poet- 
like, for  thy  departure.  One  tear  in  an  honest  eye  is  more  precious 
to  thy  sight,  than  all  the  metaphorical  weepings  in  the  universe  ;  and 
thouilidst  leave  many  starting  to  think  how  many  months  it  would  be 
till  they  saw  thee  again.  And  yet  thou  didst  love  metaphorical  tears 
too,  in  their  way  ;  and  couldst  always  liken  every  thing  in  nature  to 
something  great  or  small ;  and  the  rains  that  beat  against  thy  cabin- 
window  will  set,  we  fear,  thy  over- working  wits  upon  many  compari- 
sons that  ought  to  be  much  more  painful  to  others  than  thyself; — 
Heaven  mend  their  envious  and  ignorant  numskulls.  But  thou  hast 
*'  a  mighty  soul  in  a  little  body ;"  and  the  kind  cares  of  the  former 
for  all  about  thee  shall  no  longer  subject  the  latter  to  the  chance  of 
impressions  which  it  scorns  ;  and  the  soft  skies  of  Italy  shall  breathe 
balm  upon  it;  and  thou  shalt  return  with  (lif  friend  the  nightingalej 


400  THE  indicator: 

and  make  al!  thy  other  friends  as  happy- with  thy  voice  as  they  are 
sorrowful  to  miss  it.  The  little  cage  thou  didst  sometime  share  with 
us,  looks  as  deficient  without  thee,  as  thy  present  one  may  do  without 
us;  but — farewell  for  awhile:  thy  heart  is  ia  our  fields:  and  thou 
wilt  soon  be  back  to  rejpin  it. 


Prmfeilino  piiMlslieil  liy  Joseph' AiPPtEViYift,  TJ6.'  19;  Cnrtwrirte'-sfTe^r/Stratid. 
Price  2d. — And  sold  also  by  A.  Gliddon,  Importer  of  Siniffs,  No.  31,  Tavi»toi>k- 
street,  Covent-<;arden.     Orders  received  at  the  above  places,  and  by  all  Book* 

'    sellers  and  Newsmeiu 


.    ,;i!ff>    •I'-MUHJbl   15   3l  .  (lti/r"V«/ 

.  ;;iw  ion  ol)  9.  r»Hi  fVi(#n')t!  " 


i 


.;iOt;- 

TherieTie  arriving  round  about  doth  fiie. 
And  takes  survey  with  busie  curious  eye: 
N«w  this,  now  that,  he  tastetl*  tenderly. 

,,!.;!.  ■  SPENSEB. 


No.  LI^^WEDNESDAY,  SEPTEMBER  27th-  1820. 

.         -     •      -    '■-    ■-:■''■      ■• i    rU:-:^'\    -ii'liU    Oi    fill  A 

,  'do  tliii''\ 

ON   COMMENDATORY  VERSES.'. ai'/irnA 

Wr  must  inform  the  reader  of  a  very  particular  sort  of  ■  distress,  to 
which  we  agreeable  writers  are  subject.  We  mean  the  not  krtowing  what 
to  do  with  letters  of  approbation.  During  the  first  aera  X)f  our  periodi- 
cal flourishing,  we  used  to  sink  them  entirely,  comforting  ourseWes  ia 
private  with  our  magnanimity,  and  contrasting  it  with  tke  greedy  ad- 
mission which  some  of  our  brethren  gave  to  all  panegyrical  comers. 
We  had  not  yet  learnt^  that  corl-espondents  have  delicate  feelings  to  be 
consulted,  ;as  Well  as  editors.  When  this  very  benignant  light  was  let 
ifl  upon  us,  we  had  to  consider,  the  natures  of  our  several  fcorrespon^^ 
dents,  and  to  try  and  find  out  which  6f  them  wrote  most  sincerely^ 
■which  would  be  hurt  or. otherwise  by  non-insertion,  and- which  we 
ought  to  giv«  way  to,  as  a  matter  of  right  on  their  own  parts,  as  well  a^ 
of  pleksiire  on  ours.  We  found  our  scruples  wonderfully  apt  to  h& 
done  away  in  proportion  to  the  intelligence  and  cordiality  of  the 
writer.  Mere  good-nature,  with  all  our  esteem  for  it,  we  could  seldom 
admit,  for  obvious  reasons;  but  good-nature  and  wit  in  unison,  espe- 
cially if  joined  with  the  knowledge  of  any  generous  actlbn  performed 
by-  the  possessor j.  we  always  found  irresistible  to  Our  modesty.  i 

"  In  fact,  the  more  honour  it  did  you,  Mr.  Indicator,  the  more-  yott 
•tv^'re  inclined  to  consult  the  delicacy  of  your  correspondent?" 
i  .Tust  BOi— Now  if  our  faculties  ar6  any  thing  at  all,  they  are  social'; 
and  we  have  always  been  most  pleased  on  these  occasions,  when  XTje 
^ave  .Received  the  approbation  of  those  friends,  whom  we  are  moSt  ift 
the  habit  of  thinking  of  wh^n  w6  write.  There  are  multitudes  of 
i-eaders  whose  society  We  can  fancy  ourselves  enjoying,  though  we 
have  never  seen  them  ;  but  we  are-  iflore  particularly  apt  to  imagine 
ourselves  in  such  and  such  company,  according  to  the  nature  of  our 
articles.  We  are  accustomed  to  say  to  ourselves,  if  we  happen  to  strike 
off  any  thing  that  pleases  us,— -K'.  will  like- that : — There's  something 
for  M.  or  R.!:*— C.  will  snap  his  finger  and  slap  his  knee-pan  at  this  :— 
Here's  a  crow  to  pick  forH.-^Here  N.  will  shake  his  shoulders:—^  . 
There  B.,  ditto j  his  head  :— Here  S.  will  shriek  with  satisfaction  t—i* 
•L.  will  see  the  pliilosophy  of  this  joke,  if  nobody  else  does;— As  to 
our  fair  friends^  we  ifind  it  di|fi(;uU  to  think  of  them  and  out  subject 


402  THE  INDICATOR. 

together.  We  fancy  their  countenances  looking  so  frank  and  kind 
over  our  disquisitions,  that  we  long  to  have  them  turned  towards  our- 
selves instead  of  the  paper.  ■'    /^  »'    L*^,  i    .      -'    .]  *",' 

Every  pleasure  we  could  experience  in  a  friend's  approbation,  we 
have  felt  in  receiving  the  following  verses.  They  are  from  a  writer, 
■who  of  all  other  men,  knows  how  to  extricate  a  common  thing  from 
commonness,  and  to  give  it  an  underlook  of  pleasant  consciousness 
and  wisdom.  We  knew  him  directly,  in  spite  of  his  stars.  His  hand 
as  well  as  heart  betrayed  him. 

TO   MT   FRIEND   THB   INDICATOR. 

,  Vour  easy  Essays  indicate  a  flow, 
Dear  Ffiendi  of  brain,  which  we  may  elsewhere  seelc"; 
And  to  their  pages  I,  aiid  bnadreda,  owe. 
That  Wednesday  is  the  sweetest  of  the  week. 
Such  observation,  wit,  and  sense,  are  shewn, 
"We  think  the  days  of  BickerstafF  returned  ; 
And  that  a  portion  of  that  oil  you  own. 
In  his  undying  midnight  lamp  which  burned. 
I  would  not  lightly  bruise  old  Priscian's  head, 
Or  wrong  the  rules  of  grammar  understood } 
But,  with  the  leave  of  Priscian  be  it  said, 
The  Indicative  is  your  Potential  M»od. 
Wit,  poet,  prose-man,  party-man,  translator — 
H — -,  your  best  title  yet  is  iNDiCiATOR. 

The  receipt  of  these  verses  has  set  us  upon  thinking  of  the  good- 
natured  countenance,  which  men  of  genius,  in  all  ages,  have  for 
tlje  most  part  shewn  to  contemporary  writers ;  and  thence,  by  a 
natural  traiisition,  of  the  generous  friendship  they  have  manifested  fo^ 
each  other.  Authors,  like  other  men,  may  praise  as  well  as  blame 
for  various  reasons ;  for  interest,  for  egotism,  for  fear :  and  for  the 
same  reasons  they  may  be  silent.  jBut  generosity  is  natural  to  the 
humanity  and  the  strength  of  genius.  Where  it  is  obscured,  it  is 
usually  from  something  that  has  rendered  it  misanthropical.  Where  it  is 
glaringly  deficient,  the  genius  is  deficient  in  proportion.  And  the  de- 
fauller  feels  as  much,  tho.ugh  he  does  not  know  it.  He  feels,  ^at  the 
least  addition  to  another's  fame  threatens  to  block  up  the  view  of  his 

OWfl.  

At  the^;«ame  time,  praise  by  no  means  implies  a  sense  of  superiority. 
It  may  imply  that  we  think  it  worth  having;  but  this  may  arise  from  a 
consciousness  of  our  sincerity,  and  from  a  certain  instinct  we  have, 
that  tOi relish  any  thing  exceedingly  gives  us  a  certain  ability,  to  judge, 
as  well  as  a  right;  to  express  our  admiration,  of  it. 

On  all  these  accounts,  we  were  startled  to  hear  the  other  day  that 
Shakspeare  had  never  praised  a  contemporary;  author.  We  had  me- 
chauieally  given  him  credit  for  the  manifestation  of  every  generosity 
under  the  s,un  ;  and  found  the  surprise  affect  us,  not  as  authors  (which 
would  have  beert  a  vanity  not  even  warranted  by  our  Jjaying  the  title 
in  common  with  him),  but  as  men.  What  baulked  us^  in  Shakspeare, 
-seemed  to  baulkiour  faith  in  humanity.  But  we  recovered  as  speedily. 
Shakspeare  had  tione  of  the  ordinary  inducements,  which  make  men 
origgardly^f. their  commendation.  He  had  no  reason  either  to  be  jealous 
or^trai^  .  He.was  tho  reteise  of  uopopulv.     His  own  claims/w«i'« 


THE  INWCATOR.  40a 

universally  allowed.  He  was  neitJjfir  one  who  need  be  silent  about  a 
friend,  lest  he  should  be  hurt  by  his  enemy  ;  nor  one  who  nursed  a 
style  or  a  theory  by  himself,  and  so  was  obliged  to  take  upon  him  a 
monopoly  of  admiration  in  self-defence  ;  nor  one  ^vho  should  gaae 
himself  blind  to  every  thing  else,  in  the  complacency  of  his  own  shalJ. 
lowness.  If  it  should  be  argued^  that  he  who  saw  through  human 
nature,  was  not  likely  to  praise  it,  we  answer,  that  he  who  saw  through 
it  as  Shakspeare  did,  was  the  likeliest  man  in  the  world  to  be  kind  to 
it.  Even  Swift  refreshed  the  dry  bitterness  of  his  misanthropy  in  his 
love  for  Tom,  Dick,  and  Harry  ;  and  what  Swift  did  from  impatience 
at  not  finding  men  better,  Shakspeare  would  do  out  of  patience  in  find*, 
ing  them  so  good.  We  instanced  the  sonnet  in  the  collection  called 
the  Passionate  Pilgrim,  beginning 

If  music  and  sweet  poetry  agree, 
in  which  Spenser  is  praisecl  so  highly.  It  was  replied,  that  minute 
enquirers  considered  that  collection  as  apocryphal.  This  set  us  upon 
looking  again  at  the  biographers  who  have  criticised  it ;  and  we  see  no 
reason,  for  the  present,  to  doubt  its  authenticity.  For  some  parts  of 
it  we  would  answer  uppn  internal  evidence,  especially,  for  instance, 
the  Lover's  Complaint.  There  are  two  lines  in  this  poem  which 
would  alone  announce  him.     They  have  the  very  trick  of  his  eye. 

O  father,  wliat  a  hell  of  witchcraft  lies 
III  the  small  orb  of  one  particular  tear! 

But  enquirers  would  have  to  do  much  more  than  disprove  the  authen- 
ticity of  these  poems,  before  they  made  out  Shakspeare  to  be  a  grudge 
ing  author.  They  would  have  to  undo  all  the  modesty  and  kindliness 
of  his  other  writings.  They  vvould  have  to  undo  his  universal  cha- 
racter for  "  gentleness,"  at  a  time  when  gentle  meant  all  that  was 
noble  as  well  as  mild.  They  would  have  to  find  bitterness  in  the 
sweet  wisdom  that  runs  throughout  his  dramatic  works,  and  selfishness 
in  the  singular  and  exquisite  generosity  of  sentiment  that  hallows  his 
more  personal  productions.  They  would  have  to  deform  and  to  un«- 
tune  all  that  round,  harmonious  miiid,  which  a  great  contemporary 
described  as  the  very  "  sphere  of  humanity;"  to  deprive  him  of  the 
epithet  given  him  in  the  school  of  Milton,  "  unvulgar*;"  to  render  the 
universality  of  wisdom  liable  to  the  same  drawbacks  as  mere  univer- 
sality of  science ;  to  take  the  child's  heart  out  of  the  true  man's  body  ; 
to  un-Shakspeare  Shakspeare.  If  Shakspeare  had  never  mentioned,a 
contemporary  in  his  life,  nor  given  so  many  evidences  in  his  sonnets  of 
a  cordial  and  admiring  sense  of  those  about  him,  we  would  sooner  be- 
lieve that  sheer  modesty  had  restrained  his  tongue,  than  the  least 
approach  to  a  petty  feeling.  We  can  believe  it  possible  that  he  may- 
have  thought  his  panegyrics  not  wanted ;  but  unless  he  degraded  himself 
wilfully,  in  order  to  be  no  better  than  any  of  his  fellow-creatures, 
we  cannot  believe  it  possible^  that  he  wpuld  h^ve  thought  his  pane- 
gyrics wanted,  and  yet  withheld  them. 
It  is  remarkable  that  one  of  the  most  regular  contributprs  of  Com- 

*  By  Milton's  nephew  Philips  in  his  Theatrum  Pretarutn.    It  is  an  epithet  given 
ill  all  the  spirit  which  it  attributes.  ■   :   .       ' 


404  THE  INDICATORi 

mendatory  Verses  in  the  time  of  Shakspeare,  was  a  mart  whose  bltfnt* 
ness  of  criticism  and  feverish  Surliness  of  manners  have  rendered  tbd 
most  suspected  of  a  jealous  grudgingness ; — Ben  Jonson.     We  mean 
not  to  detract  an  atom  from  the  good-heartedness  which  we  sincerely 
l)eIieTe  this  eminent  person  to  have  possessed  at  bottom,  when  we  say, 
ihat  as  an  excess  of  modest  Confidence  in  his  own  generous  instiiicti 
roight  possibly  have  accounted  for  the  sparingness  of  panegyric  in  our 
great  dramatist,  so  a  noble  distrust  of  himself,  and  a  fear  lest  jealousy 
■should  get  the  better  of  his  instincts,  might  possibly  account  for  thi^ 
panegyrical  overplus  in  his  illustrious  friend.     If  so,  it  shews  how  use* 
ful  such  a  distrust  is  to  one's  ordinary  share  of  humanity ;  and  how  much 
Jsafer  it  will  be  for  us,  on  these  as  well  as  all  other  occasions,  to  ven- 
ture upon  likening  ourselves  to  Ben  Jonson  rather  than   ShaUspeajrh, 
It  is  to  be  recollected  at  the  same  time  that  Ben  Jonson,  in  his   agf, 
was  the  more  prominent  person  of  the  two,  as  a  critical  bostowcr  of 
applause  ;  that  he  occupied  what  i^iay  be  called  the  town-ch'alr  of  wit 
and  scholarship ;  and  was  in  the  habit  of  sanctioning  the  pretensionjj 
of  new  authors  by  a  sort  of  literaiy  adoption,  calling  them  his  "  sons,'^ 
and  "  sealing  them  of  the  tribe  of  Ben."     There  was  more  in  him  of 
the  aristocracy  and  heraldry  of  letters,  than  in  Shakspeare,  who,   aftejr 
all,  seems  to  have  been  careless  of  fame  himself,  and  to  have  written 
jiothing  during  the  chief  part  of  his  life  but  plays  which  he  did  not  prin'/, 
Ben  Jonson,  among  other  panegyrics,  wrote  high  and  affectionate  ones 
upon  Drayton,  William  Browne,  Fletcher,  and  Beaumont.    His  verses 
'to  the  memory  of  Shakspeare  are  a  most  noble  monument  to  both  of 
'them*    .The  lines  to  Beaumont,  in  return  for  some  which  we  hav0 
quoted  in  a  former  number,  we  must  repeat.     They  are  delightful  for 
a  certain  involuntary  but  manly  fondness,  and  for  the  candoui-  With 
which  he  confesses  the  ioy  he  received  from  such  commendation.'  ,;''' 

How  I  do  love  ihee,  Beaumont,  arid  thy  Mu9e  '  r  in 

That  unto  me  dost  such  religion  use  ■•.>1  nr 

How  1  do  fear  myseir,  that  am  not  worth  '    ^ 

Tiie  least  ind(i'<rent  tlioHght  thy  pen  drops  forth  !     .  |  910«I 

VijV.Ovi.'.'f.J-iAt  once  tlioO  mak'st  me  happy,  and  nnmak'd  :  -.i   An   dlltii 

,-f!^  'j',  ,7,.|;i And  giving  larffely  fo  me,  more  i!)ou  tak'st!  ,  • -;    }^.■^ff;.r•,».>?>    - 

What  fate  is  miiiei  tliat  so  itself  bereaves  ?     r       :       •  •  ,, 
What  art  is  thine,  that  so  tliy  friend  drceives?  .  \  ^        ' 
When  even  there,  where  most  thou  praisest  niei"-'^'^    *'"' 
For  Wifitiilg  betterj  1  most  envy  thee. 

Observe  the  good  effect  which  the  use  of  the  word  "  religion"  has 

here,   though    somewhat   over    classical    and    pedantic.      A   ceriaiii 
■  pedantry,  in  the  best  sense  of  the  term,  was  natural  to  the  author,  and 

therefore  throws  a  grace  on  his  most  natural  moments. 
^      There  is  great  zeal  and  sincerity  in  Ben  Jonson's  lines  to  Fletcher 
^bn  the  ill  success  of  his  Faithful  Shepherdess ;  but  we  have  not  room 

for  them. 

Beaumont's  are  still  finer ;  and  indeed  fijrnish  a  very  complete  spec> 

men  of  his  wit  and  sense,  as  well  as  his  sympathy  with  his  friend.    Hrs 
'indignation  against  the  critics  is  more  composed  and  contemptuous. 

His  uppermost  feeling  is  confidence  in  his  friend's  greatness.     The 

reader  may  here  see  what  has  always  been  thought  hy  men  of  genius, 


im  INDICATOR;  4os 

of  people  who  (alee  the  ipse  dixits  of  the  critics.'    After  gifing  a  fine 
sense  of  the  irrepressible  thirst  of  writing  in  a  poet,  he  says,  ,       > 

Yet  wish  I  llvose  whom  I  for  friends  liave  known, 
To  sino;  llteir  ihouglits  fo  no  ears  but  their  own. 
Why  shou'cl  the  man,  wliose  wit  ne'er  had  a.  .stain^ 
Upon  the  public  stage  present  his  vein. 
And  make  a  thousand  men  in  judgment  sit. 
To  call  in  question  his  undoubted  wit, 
Scarce  two  of  which  can  understand  the  laws 
Which  they  should  judge  by,  nor  the  party's  cause? 
;.  •  Among  the  rout  there  is  not  one  that  hath 

'    .    In  his  own  censure  an  explicit  faith. 

One  company,  knowing  tiiey  judgment  lack,  -i.'^l 

Ground  their  belief  on  the  next  man  in  black;.    ■  t/Y 

Others,  on  him  that  makes  signs,  and  is  mule;  .,.;,r 

Some  like  as  he  does  in  the  fairest  suit ; 
He  as  his  mistress  doth,  and  she  by  chance  : 
Nor  want  there  those,  who  as  the  boy  doth  dance 

Between  the  acts,  will  censure  the  vvliole  play ;  ■     '      .        . 

Some  if  the  wax-liphts  be  not  new  that  day  ; 
But  multitudes  there  are  whose  judgment  goes 
Hearllong  according  to  the  actors  clothes. 
■     For  this,  these  public  things  juul  I,  agree  : 

So  ill,  that  but  to  do  a  right  for  thee, 
I  had  not  been  perswaded  to  ha^e  hurl'd 
These  few,  ill  spoken  lines,  into  the  world, 
Both  to  be  read,  and  censur'd  of,  by  those, 
Whose  very  reading  makes  verse  senseless  prose. 

One  of  the  finest  pieces  of  commendatory  verse  is  Sir  Walter 
Raleigh's  upon  the  great  poem  of  Spenser.  He  calls  it  a  Vision  upon 
the  Faery  Queen.  v. '"•■"  ^^ '•- 

•'  I    atio  -I-''  -m({ 

Methoughl  I  saw  the  grave  where  Lawra  lay,  • 

Within  that  temple  where  the  vestal  flame 

Was  wont  to  burn  ;  and  passing  by  that  way 

To  see  that  buried  dust  of  living  fame. 

Whose  tomb  fair  Love,  and  fairer  Virtue  kept, 

All  suddenly  I  saw  the  Faery  Queen  : 

At  whose  approach  the  soul  of  Petrarch  wept,  /' 

And  from  thenceforth  those  graces  were  not  seen;  ' 

(For  they  this  Queeh  attended);  in  whose  stead'    .  '  ';; 

(Jblivion  leid  him  down  on  Lnura's  hearse.  :, 

Jlereat  the  hardest  stones  were  seen  to  bleed. 

And  groans  of  buried  ghosts  the  heavens  did  perse, 

Where  Homer's  spriglit  did  tremble  all  for  grief, 

And  curst  th' access  of  that  celestial  thief. 

This  is  highly  imaginative  and  picturesque.  We  fancy  ourselves  in 
one  of  the  most  beautiful  places  of  Italian  sepulture, — quiet  and  hush- 
ing--looking  upon  a  tomb  of  animated  sculpture.  It  is  the  tomb  of 
the  reqowned  Laura.  We  feel  the  spirit  of  Petrarch  present  without 
being  visible.  The  fair  forms  of  Love  and  Virtue  keep  affectionate 
watch  over  the  marble.  All  on  a  sudden,  froni  out  the  dusk  of  the 
.chapel  door,  the  Faery  Queen  is  beheld  approaching  the  tomb.  The 
soul  of  Petrarch  is  heard  weeping; — a  most  intense  imagination,  which 
affects  one  like  the  collected  tears  and  disappointment  of  living  huma- 
nity.    Oblivion  lays" him  down  on  the  tomb; 

,  And  from  iheticefortli  those  Graces  were  not  secu> 


406  'THE  INDICATOR. 

The  otlier  mnrWes  bleed  at  this:  the  ghosts  of  the  dead  groan  ;  and 
the  very  spirit  of  Horner  is  felt  to  tremble.     It  is  a  very  grand  and 

high  sonnet,  worthy  of  the  dominant  spirit  of  the  writer.  One  of  its 
beauties  however  is  its  defect ;  if  defect  it  be,  and  not  rather  a  fine  in- 
stance of  the  wilful.  Gompnrisons  between  great  reputations  are  dan- 
gerous, and  are  apt  to  be  made  too  much  at  the  expense  of  one  of  them, 
precisely  because  the  author  knows  he  is  begging  the  question.  Obli- 
vion has  laid  him  dowtj  neither  on  Laura's  hearse  nor  the  Faery- 
Queen's  ;  and  Raleigh  knew  he  never  would.  But  he  wished  to  make 
out  a  triumphant  case  for  his  friend,  in  the  same  spirit  in  which  he 
pushed  his  sword  into  a  Spanish  settlement  and  carried  all  before  him. 
The  verses  of  Andrew  Marvell  prefixed  to  Paradise  Jjost,  begin- 
ning 

When  I  beheld  the  poet,  blind  yet  bold, 

are  well  known  to  every  reader  of  Milton,  and  justly  admired  by  all 
•who  know  what  they  readi  We  remember  how  delighted  we  were  to 
find  who  Andrew  Marvell  was,  and  that  he  could  be  so  pleasant  and 
lively  as  well  as  grave.  Spirited  and  worthy  as  this  panegyric  is,  the 
reader  who  is  not  thoroughly  acquainted  with  Marveil's  history  does 
not  know  all  their  spirit  and  worth.  That  true  friend  and  excellent 
patriot  stuck  to  his  old  acquaintance,  at  a  period  when  all  canters  and 
time-servers  turned  their  backs  upon  him,  and  would  have  made  the 
Tery  knowledge  of  him,  which  they  themselves  had  had  the  honour  of 
sharing,  the  ruin  of  those  that  put  their  desertion  to  the  blush.  Ther-e 
19  a  noble  "burst  of  indignation  on  this  subject,  in  one  of  Marvell^s 
prose  works,  against  one  Parker,  who  succeeded  In  getting  made  a 
bishop.  Parker  seems  to  have  thought  that  Marvell  would  have  been 
afraid  of  acknowledging  his  old  acquaintance ;  but  so  far  from  re- 
sembling the  bishop  in  that  or  any  other  particular,  he  not  only  pub- 
licly proclaimed  and  gloried  in  the  friendship  of  the  overshadowed 
poet,  but  reminded  Master  Parker  that  be  had  once  done  the  same. 

We  must  be  caiitions  how  we  go  on  quoting  verses  upon  this  agree- 
;able  subject ;  for  they  elbow  one's  prose  out  at  a  great  r^te.  They 
sit  in  state,  with  a  great  vacancy  on  each  side  of  them,  like  Henry  Hie 
8th  in  a  picture  of  Holbein's.  The  wits  who  flourished  after  the  time 
of  the  Stuarts  were  not  behind  the  great  poets  of  the  age  of  Elizabeth 
in  doing  justice  to  their  contemporaries.  Dryden  hailed  the  appear- 
ance of  Congreve  and  Oldham.  Congreve's  merits  were  universally 
acknowledged,  except  by  the  critics.  We  need  not  refer  to  the  works 
.of  Pope,  Gay,  Steele,  Prior,  &c.  If  Swift  abused  Dryden  (who  is  said 
to  have  told  him  he  would  never  be  a  ^oet),  he  also  abused  in  a  most 
unwarrantable  and  outrageous  manner  Sir  Richard  Steele,  for  whose 
Tatler  he  had  written.  His  abuse  was  not  a  thing  of  literary  jealousy, 
bttt  of  some  personal  or  party  spite.  The  union  of  all  three  was  a 
quintessence  of  consciousness,  reserved  for  the  present  times.  But 
Swift's  very  fondness  vented  itself,  like  Bonaparte's,  in  slaps  of  the 
cheek.  lie  was  morbid,  and  liked  to  create  himself  cause  for  pity  or 
regret.  "  The  Dean  was  a  strange  man.'^  According  to  Mrs.'Pilking- 
ton's  account,  he  used  to  give  her  a  pretty  hard  thump  now  and  then. 


THE  INDICATOR.  40^ 

of  course  to  see  how  amiably  she  took  it.     Upon  the  same  principle, 

he. tells  us  in  the  verses  on  his  death  that  ,  j.;^  ».;  ^j.  ^  ,;    .i-t 

Friend  Pope  will  gTieve  a  month,  and  Gay   •^^»,T-iyYi   wijt    laidi 
A  week,  and  Arbuthnot  a  day.  '     •  ,' 

Thfs  was  to  Tex  them,  and  make  them  prove  his  words  false  by  coin.* 
plaining  of  their  injustice.  He  himself  once  kept  a  letter  unopened 
for  some  days,  because  he  was  afraidit  would  contain  news  of  a  friend** 
death.  See  how  he  makes  his  very  coarseness  and  irrilabiiity  coritri* 
b ate  to  a  panegyric  :— 

•      i"5'J"'i'^l  -        When  Pope  shall  in  one  fcbnplet  fix 

'    '         •  More  sense  ilinn  I  can  do  in  six,  ,..-..-;      ,     „       -       . 

It  gives  me  sych  a  jealous  fitj,  I  >o  faii'/^ncq  axil: 

I  cry,  "  Pox  lake  hinn  and  hi9  will"  .♦^.  .:.      .:,t  f ,  \  .,;r7 ,, 

We  must  finish  our  quotations  with  a  part  of  some  sprightly  terse* 
addressed  to  Garth  on  his  Dispensary  by  a  friend  of  the  name  of 
Codrington.  Codrington  was  one  of  those  happily  tempered  spirits^ 
who  united  in  high  style  the  characters  of  the  gentleman,  the  wit,  and 
the  man  of  business.  He  was  in  the  best  sense  of  the  words,  "  a  per- 
son o£  wit  and  honour  about  town,"  ,/    /;   - 

••  The  courtier's,  scholar's,  soldier's,  eye,  tongtiej'^i^drd. 

He  was  born  in  Barbadoes,  where  after  residing  some  time  In  England, 
and  serving  with  great  gallantry  as  an  officer  in  various  parts  of  the 
world,  he  was  appointed  Governor-General  of  the  Leward  Islands. 
He  resigned  his  government  in  the  course  of  a  few  years,  and  died  i^ 
fhe  same  place  in  the  midst  of  his  favourite  studies.  Among  the  variety 
of  his  accomplishments  he  did  not  omit  even  divinity,  and  was  ac- 
counted a  special  master  of  metaphysics.  His  public  life  he  had  de- 
voted to  his  country:  his  private  he  divided  among  his  books  and 
friends.  If  the  verses  before  us  are  not  so  good  as  those  of  the  old 
poets,  they  are  as  good  in  their  way,  are  as  sincere  and  cordial,  anc^ 
smack  of  the.champaigne  on  his  table.  We  like  them  on  n>any  accounts^ 
for  we  like  the  panegyrist,  and  have  an  old  liking  for  his  friend  : — we 
like  the  taste  they  express  in  friendship  and  in  beauty ;  and  we  like  to 
fancy  that  our  good-humoured  ancestors  in  Barbadoes  enjoyed  the 
Governor's  society,  and  relished  their  \yine  with  these  identical  triplets. 

TO    MY   FRIEND   THE   AUTHOR,    DESIRING    MY    OPINION   OF   HIS   POEH 

Asic  me  not,  fViend,  wlml  I  approve  or  blanie^;  ,;  .^  ;;;^,;,;;-J 

Perhaps  I  know  not  what  1  like  or  damn  ; 

rfca»be  pleased,  and  I  dare  own  I  am.         i   ''TBrl  sw  ifiih  : 

i  j    .,  ■    '         L  ,  5  ■■'••»»»    V«<!'^'   »<i''  ' 

1  read  thee  over  wuh  a  lover  s  eye;  \,'   li tv/    n,  ^     ' 

Thou  hast  no  faults,  or  I  no  faults  can  spy;    '    '  '" 

'      Thouarlall  beauty,  or  airbnndtife*si.     .  i)  oioi  o^ai  i.iw  ^jW    . 

■.^  .  .  ,     ;  ^M  M-.I......  ,..ri»,   ..'.'/     !..„•{ 

•Critics  and  aped  beaux-of  fancy  eliaste, 
Who  ne'er  had  fire,  or  else  whose  (ire  is  past. 
Must  judge  by  rules  what  tliey  want  force  to  taste. 

I  would  a  poet,  like  a  mistress,  try. 

Not  by  iter  hair,  her  iiand,  her  nose,  her  eye; 

Bui  by  some  Hiameless  power  to. give  me  joy>      ,    he^ihiUinq  hve  irtUi'i'l 

The  nymph  has  Grafton's,  Cecil's,  Churchill's  chHrnw,'     '       hi?  • -mS 
If  with  resistless  fires  my  soul  she  warms,  r,  >  ,iij.,-ii» 

With  balm  upon  her  lips,  and  raptures  in  Iier  arms.  -    "oe  rt'ilb* 


4oal  Tlife'lNDIGATbrtJ 

n'*'l>it^rary  loves 'arid  jcalousis  vvorfe  niiicTi  the  same  !n  Ifi'o  '^hck-nt  an<t 
Tniddle  ages  as  the  present ;  but  we  hear  a  great  deal  more  ef  the  -loves 
than  the  reverse;  because  genius  survives  and  ignorance  does  not. 
The  ancient  philosphers  had  a  delicate  way,  of  honouring  their  fa- 
vourites, by  "inscribing  treatises  with  their*  names.  It  is  thought  a' 
Strange  thing  in  Xenophon  that  he  tiever  once  mentions  Plato.  ..Thte- 
greater  part  of  the  miscellaneous  poetry  of  the  Greeks  is  lost;  or  we  i 
should  doubtless  see  numerous  evidenqes  of  the  intercourse :of.theii*i 
authors.  The  Greek  poets  of  Sicily,  Theocritus  and  Moschus^  are; 
very  affectionate  in  recording  the,  merits  of  their  contemporaries. 
Varius  and  Gallus,  two  emiijentj  Roman  poets,  scarcely  survive  but  in 
the  panegyrics  of  Horace,  Virgil,  and  Ovid  ;  all  of  whom  were  fond  of 
paying  their  tributes  of  admiration.  Dante  does  the  Same  to  his  con- 
temporaries .and  predecessors.  Petrarch  and.  Boccacid  pubVifcly 
Ijonouredj  as  they  privately  loved,  each  other.  Tasso,  the  greatest  pbefc 
of  his  tiihe^  was  also  the  greatest  panegyrist;  and  so,  as  might  be  ex-' 
pected,  was  Ariosto.  He  has  introduced  a  host  of  his  friends  by  name, 
male  and  female,  at  the  end  of  his  great  work.,  coming  down  to  th'e 
shores  of  poetry  to  welcome  him  home  after  his  voyage.  There  is  a 
pleasant  imitation  of  it  by  Gay,applied  to  Pope's  conclusion  of  Homer. 
JVIontaigne,  who  had  the  most  exalted  notions  of  friendship,  which  ha. 
thought  should  have  every  thitig  in  coramop,  took  as  mueh  zeal  in  th'ei 
literary  reputation  of  his  friends,  as  in  every  thing  else  that  concernefl' 
them,  'The' wits  of  the  time  of  Henry  the  Fourth,  of  Louis  the  I4tb, 
and  of  Louis  the' J5t1V,-—-Malherbe,Racah,  Corneille,  Moliere,  Racine^ 
Chauifeu^La  Fare,  .D'Alembert,  Voltajre,' &,c.  not  excepting  Boile^viV 
wljere  he'krtew  a.  writer,-r-dll  dp  honour  in  this  respect  to  the  sociality* 
of  theif  ilation.  it  is  the  same,  we  believe,  with  the  Germarl  writers^ 
^tid  if  the'Spanish' winced  a  little  under  the  domination  of  Lope  de^ 
^ega,  they  were'  chivalrous  in  gjiving  him  perhaps  more  than  his  due. 
Camoens  had  the  admiration  of.  literary  friends  as  poor  as  himselfj  if  he 
ilad  iiothing  else  I;  but  this  .V^^as  sometljiijg. 

vi  ■yAii  ^j  !/  biij;   ;  ' ■' 

iuli  b-rfo'iut  .?.•-  ' 

.  TO   CORRESPONDENTS. 

F.  is  informed,  in  nnswer  to  his  welcome  question,  that  a  Tille-p8"e  and  Index 
to  the  First  Volume  of  the  iNDtCATOR  wi'l  appear  in  (he  next  Number.,, 

We  regret  that  we  have  mislaid  some  verses  which  were  sent  us  from  Lincoln's 
Inn,  and  which,  if  they  were  written  by  a  young  man,  were  of  considerable  promise. 
Tlie  siornuture,  we  think,  was  S. 

We  will  take  into  due  considerption.thB.'r^ippns.trance  offered  9|!«iniBtour  types 

by  J.  W.,  who  contrives  to  make  liis  rebukes  as  pleasant  as  other  men's  praises. 

'  .    .      r-.  v"'ir,.  :.-'y.'^r  .    ■•  •  ■■"■  ■'  ^ 

■■.-.oji.J^Miw  Y'l.il  Jud//  i-.')!iii   ; 


Printed  and  published  by  JtUKPfli  'f^ppi.llyfA^6,iN6.  l^yCiLlVerriTib'iii'eei,  Strand. 
Price  2d. — Anc^sold  also  by  A.  Gitddon,  Importer  oF  Snuffs,  No.  31,  Tavislcrk* 
street,  Covent-garden,  Orders  received  at  tiie  above  placeu,  and  by  all  Book- 
sellers and  Newsmjeut 


THE    INDICATOR. 


There  he  arriving  round  about  dotfi  flie. 
And  takes  survey  with  busie  curious  eye: . 
Now  this,  now  that,  he  tasteth  tenderly. 

Spenser. 


No.  LII.— WEDNESDAY,   OCTOBER  4th,  1820. 


UPON  INDEXES. 


Index  making  has  been  held  to  be  the  driest  as  well  as  lowest  spe- 
cies of  writing.  We  shall  not  dispute  the  humbleness  of  it ;  but  since 
we  have  had  to  make  an  index  ourselves,  We  have  discovered  that  the 
task  need  not  be  so  very  dry.  It  is  true,  our  index  is  made  up  out  of 
our  own  work  ;  and  as  Indicator,  we  may  reasonably  be  supposed  to 
point  out  our  own  good  things  with  no  great  unwillingness.  But  we 
do  not  so  much  allude  to  the  one  before  us,  aS  to  others.  Had  the 
thought  struck  us  sooner,  we  might  have  turned  the  former  inta 
something  really  entertaining.  As  it  is,  we  have  been  obliged  to 
cut  it  down  to  fit  in  to  our  number,  till  it  is  worth  little  or  nothing 
any  way.  But  calling  to  mind  indexes  in  general,  we  found  them, 
presenting  us  a  variety  of  pleasant  memories  and  contrasts.  We 
thought  of  those  to  the  Spectator,  which  we  used  to  look  at  so 
often  at  school,  for  the  sake  of  choosing  a,  paper  to  abridge.  We 
thought  of  the  index  to  the  Pantheon  or  Fabulous  Histories  of  th& 
Heathen  Gods,  which  we  used  to  look  at  oftener.  We  remember 
how  we  imagined  we  should  feel  some  day,  if  ever  our  name  should 
appear  in  the  list  of  Hs  ;  as  thus,  Home,  Howard,  Hume,  Huniades, 
-  The  poets  would  have  been  better,  but  then  the  names,  though 

more  fitting,  were  not  so  flattering;  as  for  instance,  Halifax,  Ham- 
mond, Harte,  Hughes,  — ^; — .     We  did  not  like  to  come  after  Hughes. 

We  have  just  been  looking  at  the  indexes  to  the  Tatler  and  Specta- 
tor, and  never  were  more  forcibly  struck  with  the  feeling  we  formerly 
expressed  about  a  man's  being  better  pleased  Avith  other  Writers  thaa 
himself.  Our  index  seems  the  poorest  and  most  second-hand  thing  ia 
the  world  after  theirs  :  but  let  any  one  read  theirs,  and  then  call  an 
index  a  dry  thing  if  he  can.  As  there  is  "  a  soul  of  goodness  in  things 
evil,"  so  there  is  a  soul  of  humour  in  things  dry,  and  in  things  dry 
by  profession.  Lawyers  know  this,  as  well  as  index-makers,  or  tliey 
would  die  of  sheer  thirst  and  aridity^  But  as -grapes,  ready  to  burst  with 
wine,  issue  out  of  the  most  stony  places,  like  jolly  fellows  bringing 
burgundy  out  of  a  cellar ;  so  an  Index,  like  the  Tatler's,  often  gives  as 
a  taste  of  the  quintessence  of  his  humour.     For  instance, 


410  THE  INDICATOR. 

Bickerstaff,  Mr.  account  of  his  ancestors,  141.  How  his  race  was 
improved,  142.  Not  in  partnership  with  Lillic,  250.  Catchefl  writ- 
ing nonsense,  47.  "^ 

Dead  men,  who  are  to  be  so  account^,  247. 

Sometimes  he  has  a  stroke  of  pathos,  as  touching  in  its  brcTity  as 
the  account  it  refers  to  ;  as, 

I^ove-letters  between  Mr.  Bickerstaff  and  Maria,  184 — 186.  Found 
in  a  grave,  289. 

Sometimes  he  is  simply  moral  and  graceful  ;  as. 

Tenderness  and  humanity  insjrired  by  the  Muses,  258.  No  true 
greatness  of  mind  without'lt,  ibid. 

At  another,  he  says  perhaps  more  than  he  intended  ;  as, 

Laura,  her  perfections  and  excellent  character,  19,  Despised  hy 
her  husband,  ibid. 

The  Index  to  Cotton's  Montaigne,  probably  written  by  the  transla- 
tor himself,  is  often  pithy  and  amusing-     Thus  in  Volume  2d, 

Anger  is  pleased  with,  and  flatters  itself,  618. 

Bea'sts  inclined  to  avarice,  225.  ... 

Ghildr^  abandoned  to  the  care  and  government  of  their  fathers,  613. 
■   Drunkenness,  to  a  high  and  dead  degree,  16. 
'Joy,  profound,  has  more  severity  than  gaiety  in  it. 

Monsters,  are  not  so  to  God,  612. 
,  Voluptuousness  of  the  Cynicks,  418.  . 

',  Soxnetimes,  we  meet  with  graver  quaintnesses  and,x«rious  relalions, 
as  ih  the  index  to  Sandys's  Ovid  ;        .       ••  , 

Diai>a,  no  virgin,  scoft  at  by  JLucian,  p.  55. 
;=  Dwarfes,  aft  Italian  Dwarfe  carried  about  in  a  pnr rot's  cage,  p.  113. 
..  Eccho,  at  Twilleries  in  Paris,  heard  to  repeat  a  verse  without  fail- 
ing in  one  syllable,  p.  SS.  -.,-,    i;    ,.  .        ,. 

Ship  of  the  Tyrrhenians  miraculously  stuck  fastj  in  tb§  sea,:, p.  ^3. 
A  Historic  of  a  Bristol  ship  stuck  fast  in  the  deepe  Sea,  by  Witchcraft: 
for  which  twentie-live  Witches  were  executed,  ibid. 
•  But  this  subject,  we  find,  will  furnish  ample  materials  for  a  sepa- 
rate article ;  and  therefore  we  stop  here  for  the  present.  We  have 
§tiU  a  notion  upon  uS,  that  because  we  have  been  making  an  index,  we 
ikre.  bound  to  be  very  business-like  and  unamusing* 


ERRATA. 
,P^e  387,  For  "  it  is  pot  kivowledge  >hat  makes  us  happy  as  we  grow  up,"  read 
•'it  fs. not  knowledge  that  makes  us  wnAflj7p3/,"  &c. 

•  -There  are  many  smaller  errors  scattered  tlirough  the  volume  :  wliicli  are  owiiVg 
to  the  hurry  in  ivhich  the  Editor  has  often  written,  and  Bre'  not  be  laid  to  the  ac- 
count of  the  Printer.  Tlie  Reader,  if  he  thinks  it  wsrtli  while,  wilt  be  good  enoogli 
to  correct  them  with  his  pen  as  he  meets  with  them.  Tliey  may  be  safely  left  in  his 
hnnds.  Should  the  Work  be  reprinted,  the  Editor  will  take  care  to  see  them  al- 
lerfcd. 


TO  CORRESPONDENTS. 
The  Letter  of  T.  R.  was  extremely  welcome  and  gratifying,  on  every  •ccout>t. 


INDEX. 


Acquaintonce,  link  of  personal,  tiaeed  up  from  the  present  times  to  Shakspeare,  41. 

Advice,  why  disliked,  391. 

Alehouses  and  similar  places  of  recreation,  not  to  be  condemned  till  certain  statis- 
tical matters  are  decided,  269. 

Ancients,  their  attention  to  the  mutual  interests  of  mind  and  bedy,  176.  See  Re- 
ligion. 

Anglers,  their  meditative  want  of  thought,  44 — Fish-like  face  of  their  fatlier  Wal- 
ton, 45 — Their  tendency  to  passive  obedience,  46 — A  case  put  to  them,  lb. 
Quere,  whether  tliey  would  catch  shrieking  fish,  270. 

Ariosto,  his  description  of  a  beantiful  bosom,  translated,  12 — His  prison,  a  sonnet, 
translated,  376. 

Basso,  Andrea  de,  his  Ode  to  a  Dead  Body,  translated,  S77 — Remarks'upon  it,  381. 

Being,  error  of  jndging  of  one  mode  of  it  by  another,  385.  ' 

Bourne,  Vincent,  his  epitaph  on  a  dog  translated,  240. 

Boyle,  Hon.  Robert,  singular  gi'atiiitoiisness  of  his  moral  arguments," 312.    ' 

Chartier  Alain,  his  picture  of  a  lover,  translated^  probably  by  Chaucer,  247. 

Chaucer,  beauty  of  his  versification,  229 — Passages  of  his  Palamon  and  Arcite,  com- 
pared witli  Dryden's  versioji,  230. 

Children,  their  romance,  72 — Deaths  of,  201 — A  lost  child  the  only  eternal  image  of 
youth  and  innocence,  203 — How  men  should  be  us  children,  204 — Further  Re- 
marks on,  386. 

Christ's  Hospital,  its  retired  and  scholastic  character  in  the  lieart  of  the  crty,  21  — 
See  Lamb. 

Clouds  and  vapours,  their  aspect  next  the  sun,  58 — Use  of,  by  the  poets,  59.) 

Coaches,  their  variety  and  merits,  361. 

Coachmen,  private,  stage,  and  hackney,  described,  361, 366,  373 — HackneV)  why 
inferior  in  spirit  to  the  others — ib. 

Csmpliment,  how  to  be  given  and  received,  167. 

Conscience,  cure  for  a  wounded  one  according  to  Plato,  34. 

Cotton,  liis  observations  on  the  justice  and  passive  obedience  of  anglers,  46. 

Country,  Little  Known,  Description  of  one,  263. 

Crusades,  their  good  effect  on  more  refined  tempers,  71. 

Custom,  its  self-reconcilements  and  contradictions,  390. 

Dante,  his  description  of  an  angel  coming  over  the  sea  translated,  61. 

Day,  a  rainy  one  described,  289 — A  rainy  one  how  to  be  turned  to  account,  260 — 
See  Now. 

Death,  pictures  of  it  how  overwrought,  and  to  what  little  purpose  they  are  so,  381. 
A  kindly  imposition  upon  the  public,  386 — Other  guesses  respecting  it,  388. 

Despot,  a  sleeping  one  iield  up,  107. 

Dolphins,  probably  the  same  as  the  pbrp'us,  132 — Great  favourites  with  llie  poetis, 
136 — See  Stories. 

P^ndeavour,  sure  to  be  right — 388. 

Englisii,  do  not  make  enough  of  tlieir  sunsliinc,  9 — Nor  of  tlieir  winter  'out  of 
doors.  Great  instructors  and  little  cnjoyers,  58 — Nothing  greater  than  their 
great  men,  or  grosser  than  their  arrogant  ones,  96 — Gentlemen  in  Charles  the 
Second's  time,  jealous  of  the  commonest  Frenchman  in  love  matters,  104, 

Excitement,  a  sufficient  quantity  of  it,  how  cheaply  to  be  obtained,  232. 

Fairfax,  the  translator,  account  of,  195 — See  Tasso. 

Gentleman,  the  Old,  described,  129. 

Godiva,  Countess  of  Coventry,  how  she  rode  naked  lliroogh  the  streets  to  free  her 
husband's  subjects  from  a  tax,  18. 

Good  and  Evil,  Nature  how  justified  in  tlieir  proportions  38S— Goudnesi  iti  things 
evil,  390. 


412  INDEX. 

Hande,  two  errors  in  the  custom  oFsliakinK  them,  314. 

Happiness,  how  we  forego  it  on  earth,  anH  might  do  as  much  in  heaven,  391. 

Hats,  unpleasantness  of  new  ones,  169 — History  of  their  varieties,  170. 

Health,  the  power  of  voluntary  thought  proportioned  to  tlie  state  of  it,  383. 

Ideas,  agreeable,  how  to  set  against  disagreeable  ones,  58. 

Imagination,  humble  in  proportion  to  its  empire,  68 — Fond  of  things  remote,  69— 

Realities  of,  185 — Its  renovation  of  the  commonest  things,  192. 
Innovation,  how  to  know  whether  its  spirit  is  bad  or  good,  311. 
Intolerance,  candid  treatment  of,  tlie  last  and  best  proof  of  the  growth  of  tolera- 
tion, 32. 
Jealousy,  its  results  in  a  noble  mind,  163. 
.lesus,  summary  of  his  doctrines,  1 15. 

.Jews,  amount  of  the  qoestion  between  them  and  Christians  in  general,  372. 
Keals,  Mr.  his  early  and  true  poetical  genius,  352. 
J^ady'sMftid  described,  177. 
Lamb,  Mr.  his  mention  of  a  curious  instance  of  the  romantic  among  his  sthool-ft^l- 

iows  at  Christ's  Hospital,  72. 
Leg,  Lady's,  what  sort  of  one  beautiful,  291 — Uiider  wliat  circumstances  its  stocking 
may  be  advantageously  mudded,  ib. — Ditto  willi   respect  to  cer.tain  huge  legs  of 
t!ie  other  sex,  ib. 
London,  pleasant  recollections  associated  with  various  parts  of,  19,  235-^113  aspert 

to  be  enjoyed  even  in  foggy  weather,  58. 
Love,  its  essence  consists  in  the  return  of  pleasure,  218. 

Worvell  his  untimidated  friendship  for  Mi!lon,  406.  .j. 

May-day,  how  passed  by  our  ancestors,  225 — Why  no  longer  what  it  was,  231.    "j 
Melancholy,  bad  spirits,  or  nervous  disorders,  greatly  owing  to  body,  33 — ileme- 
djes  of,  ib.  66 — Different   in    their  extremest  cases  fronj  madness,  proptMly  so 
called,  53 — Nature  of,  mental  and  physical,  ib. 
Money-getter  described,  7. 
Montaigne,  his  study,  1 1. 
Mother,  the  grave  of  one,  202. 

Names,  utility  of  pleasant. pnes,  137 — Signification  of  our  Christian  names,  138. 
Nature,  her  general  benevolence  opposed  to  our  brief  and  particular  Bulferiug'^,  68. 
Now,  B^  descriptive  of  a  hot  da-y,  300.  .  ■ 

Ovid,  the   story  of  Cyllarus   and   Hylonome  translated,  20Q^Dc8crip»ion    of  the 

haunt  of  Cephalus,  ditto,  213, 
Parents,  severity  of,  differenca  between  brutal  and  mistaken,  64. 
Pastime,  the  folly  of  thinking  any  i-nnoceni  one  foolish,  34. 
Penates,  the  personification  of  n  poriiruhir  providence,  38. 
Perception,  varietyof  the  colours  of,  3S5 — How  they  are  caused,  386. 
Petrarch,  brief  sketch  of  the  character  of  his  life,  817— His  sight  of  his  mistress  sit- 
ting under   a   laurel,   translated,   316— Ode  to    the  Fountain  of  VuULluhp,  irHu- 
slated,  318. 
Poetry,  Origitiali  88,  120,  15.3,  161,  246,  304,  307,  402. 
Principle,  the  very  notion  of  it  rnakes  some  persons  impaiieni,  66. 
Punishment,  Eternal,   Mr.  Coleridge's  remark  on   the  self-delusion  of  those  who 
think  they  believe  in  it,  68 — Absurdity  of  it  as  an  argument  for  b'"'"?  p'ous,  384 
— Heaven  and|earths!ipuld  peliiion  to  pass  away  rather  than  a  siiigle  bt-ifig  should 
undergo  it,  389. 
QdOtations   from  Bacoa,  34— Beaumont  and  Fletcher,  21,  108,  1 1,  303— Brow  ne, 
226,  227— Butler,  50,  104— Catullus,  40,  79— Chancer,    108,71,  182,  219,  228, 
230,  250— Codrington,  407— Coleridge,  68,  75— Collins,  200— Coiton,  46— ('in- 
.shaw,  252— Dante,  66,  136— Davenant,  191— Drayton,  19— Dryden,  43,230— 
Flefcher,  g76— Ford,  255— Gay,  24— Ben  .lonsau,  44,  19}.  404— Keats,  337,  &c. 
344_MissL.  V.L.,  368— Marvell,  51— Milton,    11,  39,  59,  Tl.  154,  188,  2i;>, 
276— Ossian,  72— Prior,  363,  &c.— Raleigh,  405— Uousseau,  267— Shnk.>peat^, 
2,  4,  136,  172, 190,  218,  370,  &c.— Shelley;  .333,  &c.  336— Spenser,  107,  60,  135. 
222,  226,  &c.— Walton,  44— Warner,  30— Wither,  221— Wordbworth,  72,116, 
221.  ,      . 

Religion  of  Greece  and  Rome  less  superficial   and   thoughtless  than  «s  commonly 
supposed,  115— Moden,,  the  refuge  it  takes.  \n  v.ords,   and  its  coi.  ^'remise  with 
MBmmon,  116. 
Review,  Retrospective,  iti  l^.^'tits,  94?. 
Rising,  Early*  on  cold  moruiiigs,  what  it  has  to  say  lot  ilieU,  117. 


INDEX.  413 

Rousseau,  liis  story  of  Pygmalion  tran»latec!,24J— Himself  a  Pygmalion,  ib.  ' 

Sabl>atlis,  two  every  week,  3-i. 

Sacchetti,  a  Florenline   poet  and   novelist,   noOce  of,  223 — His  poem  on  galUefinir 
•  flowers  translated,  223.  ■■'. 

Sanii«zzaro,  his:  apostrophe  fo  the  country  and  its  deitie*  trnnslaled,  231. 
Scu'ptiire,  particular  natureof  its  beauty,  48 — Casis  from  sculpture  and  gems,  liow 
cheaply  to  be  had,  47.  -i^' 

Seamen  on  sliore,  described,  177.  .;      :        ■  -,■   ;  ,',  - 

bliakspeare,   probable  amount  of  the  question  coneerninjj  Iiim  and  Ben  Jon^n, 
43 — His  pitliy  lesson  against  ihtevin'r,   J04-^His  birth-day,  and  how  to    keep'ir, 
233 — Spots  ill  the  metropolis  that  he  must   have  frequented,  235— Question  re- 
specting his  praise  ofconlemporaries,  402.  .  -        .    ■ 
Shape,    monstrosities  of,   in   what  insiaii<^es  roconcileable    or    otherwise  .l»-the 
imagination,  204.                                                                                                  :      •    ;.  ,     'i' 
Shelley,  Mr.,  Remarks  on  his  tragedy  of  the  Genci,  329 — His  beautiful  prefaces^  ib'. 
And  amiable  zeal  for  mankind,  ib. — An  obieclion  made  to  his  Beatrice^  answeif- 
ed,  SSS'— His  character  as  a  dramatist,  .336.  ,    „  •" 
Shops,  on  tiie  sight  of,  265 — The  gallant  figure  they  make  in  the   Arabian  Night*, 

ib. — Toy-shops,  273 — Pastry-cooks,  275— ^Fruiterers,  276— Prinlsellers,  277. 
Sleep,  plesisure   of  its  approach,  105^Often,   as  well  as  watchfuliiees,  the  conse- 
quence of  sorrow,   and    why,  106 — ;Iu    wUom   its  efiecls  and  aspects  are    most 
noticeable,  108 — See  Despot.  •  " 

Solomon,  striking  fiction  respecting  his  dead  body,  75 — Was  fond  of  nature?  and 
the  country,  232— Played  the  Anacreon  in  his  old  age,  388.  .  .i  n 

Spenser,  his  remarkable  faculty  of  realizing  the  imiiginative,  136. 
Spring  described,  217. 
Sticks,  their  genealogy  and  varieties,  257 — How  they  help  a  want  of  ideas,    and 

supply  a  consciousness  of  power,  261. 
Stories,  miraculous,  frequent  triviality  of  their  origin,  4 — Horrid  ones  in  general 

not  difiicult  to  write,  73 — What  the  most  ghastly  thing  in  tliem,  75. 
Stories  of  Godiva,  17. 

An  Evil  Genius,  38. 

Gilbert  Becket,  52.    .  

Tlie  Shoemaker  of  Veyros,  GI, 

Acontins  and  Cydippe,   II.' 

Polyphemus,  Acis,  and  Galatea,  6. 

The  Beau  Mi^er,  26. 

Charles  Biandnn  aad  Mary,  Queen  of  France,  35. 

A  Talc  for  a  Cliimitpy  Corner,  73. 

The  Two  Thieves  and  the  Doctor  of  Bologoa,  84. 

The  Two  Sharpers  of  Naples,  86. 

Ijizarillo  de  Tormes,  90. 

Paul,  the  .Spanish  Sharper,  96. 

Claude  du  Vail  the  Hi<ih wayuian,  102. 

The  Fair  Revenge,  109. 

Kxtremes  meet,  or  Ail  London  and  No  Loudon,   12L 

Bacchus  and  the  Pirates,  133. 

Arion  and  the  Dolphin,   135. 

Dolphins  and  Boy,   131. 

Ronald  of  the  Perfect  Hand,  153. 

Cyllarus  and  Hylonome,  206. 

Cephaliis  and  Procris,  209. 

Tliomos  Lurting,  a  Quaker  Seaman,  235. 

Pygmalion.     See  Rousseau. 

The  Daughter  of  Hippocrates,  28L 

The  Venetian  Girl,  292. 

The  Egyptian  Thief,  298. 

ATrue  Story,  319. 

Tlie  Destruction  of  the  Cenci  Family,  321. 

Lamia,  Isabella,  the  Eve  of  St.  Agues,  and  Hypetiotj,  337. 

FariiiettR  <ir.d  F^i 'loiitia,  oScJ. 

TtieHfimBdry«d,39I. 

Tha  Nurture  of  Triploleinua,  3L'3. 


414  INDEX. 

Superslition,  llie  bad  cliarnclcr  it  brings  upon  doctrine,  386 — Why  it  misrepresents 
the  Divine  Spirit,  389 — Unliealtliy  nnd  unfeeling,  to  be  distinguislied,  389 — Su- 
perstition the  flatterer  ol  reason,  390.  „  ; 

Sympathy,  the  inhumanity  arisin*;  from  inability  to  procure  it,  6 — ^Our  first  duly 
to  otlief!',  and  greatest  warrant  for  enjoyment,  58 — Its  tendency,  in  proportion  to 
Its  extensiveness,  to  create  the  greatest  sum  of  happiness,  5?. 

Tasso,  his  stanza  upon  lorars  talking  and  bathing  translated,  12 — Ode  to  the  Gol- 
den Age  translated,  183 — Tlie  Bee  and  the  Kiss  translated,  287 — ^Translations  of 
liis  Jerusalem;  by  Hoole  and  Fairfiix,  compared,  193. 

Theocritus,  his  Infant  Hercules  and  the  Serpents  translated,  174. 

Thieves",  of  anci«nt  times,  81— Of  Italy,  83,  97— Of  Spain,  89— Their  talent  at  being 
liungry,  90 — Of  Albania,  99 — Of  Asia  and  Africa,  ib. — Of  Otahelte,  how  ex- 

■    cusnble,  ib.-^f  England,  lOO— Of  France,  102. 

Translations,  bad  ones,  how  made,  4, 198. 

Travellers,  sensation  they  must  formerly  have  created  on  returning  heme,  71.       ' 

Unhuppiness,  why  we  ere  bound  to  be  acquainted  with  it,  387. 

Venetians,  why  fond  of  black,  15 — Chearful  kindness  to  one  another,  16. 

Virgil,  liis  ecepticism  modified  by  a  sickly  temperament,  1 13 — Apparition  of  the 
Penates  to  ^neas,  translated,  39 — The  threshold  of  Cacus's  den,  ditto,  81. 

"West,  Mr.  sale  of  his  pictures,  285 — Unpleasant  to  see  an  event  of  this  kind  in  b 
house  with  which  we  have  been  familiar,  ib. — Recollections  connected  with  his 
house,  ib.278. 

World,  knowledge  of  the,  to  what  it  amounts  in  geueral,32. 

Writing,  one  secret  of  tlie  art  of,  32. 


Prmted  and  published  by  Joskfb  Appletard,  No.  19,  Cntherine-ntreet,  Strand. 
Price  2d. — And  sold  also  by  A.  Glidoon,  Importer  of  Snuffs,  No.  31,  Tavistook- 
sireet,  Covent-garden.  Orders  received  at  the  above  places,  and  by  all  Book- 
sellers and  Newsmen* 


THE    INDrGATOR.         ' 

•■'■.,•..)  /otn  T'>T><i 

Tlieve  he  arriving  round  ahout  doth  flie,  '0.-«  "Jl  ,  >•     . 

.     And  takes  svrvey  vkhtiisie  curious  eye:  I'      .8,'. 

Now  this,  now  that,  he  tastetU  tenderly. 

SPENSEtl. 

■  ^';/;M  i 


No.-f.,^ WEDNESDAY,   OCTOBER  llth,   1820. 


AN  old' SCHOOL-BODK.— TABLE-WITS.— A  BREAKI^ASTj   :  '  ..j 

It  is  expecte(i^  we  understand,  that  we  shall  begin  our  second  volume 
with  something  very  piquant.  This  is  an  awful  announcement.  To 
l^e  called  upjon  for  aboni-mot  is  embarrassing.  T©  -be  expected  to  be 
amusing  for  eight  good  octavo  pages,  is  at  least  equal  to  ealling  upo^ 
a  man  for  half  an  hqur's  much  interesting  chat,  all  on  his  own  side. 
Then  tftere  is  the  sensation  vyhichj  singers  have,  whea  they  are  told 
that  the  company  are  "  all  attention."  - 

Some  persons,  when  they  expect  you  to  be  witty,  do  not  even  recon* 
cile  the  a;inouncement  by  an  implied  compliment.  They  look  upon 
it  as  all  in  the  ^^ay  of  business.  As  a  baker  has  his  hot  rolls  by  eight 
o'clock,  so  an  author,  they  think,  is  to  have  his  essays.  Twopenny- 
loaves  are  the  trade  of  one ;  twopenny  Indicators  of  the  other.  The 
same  expetise  of  the  faculties  is'  Supposed  to  go  to  the  making  of  either* 
The  printer  composes  "for  hi*  br6ad  ;  so  does  the  author.  The  cook 
melts  down  another  animal's  braina  with  great  equanimity  j  the  author^ 
of  course,  likewise.  •  '  < ' '  >/.<:'-,  ■) 

There  is  a  sthool-book  by  the  egregious  John  Amos  Comenius, 
(who  fixed  the  millennium  for  the  year  1672)  in  which  the  learned 
author  has  unfortunately  given  too  much  countenance  to  this  equal 
and  indifljerent  notion  of  authorship,  by  the  way  in  which  he  hath, 
lumped  together  and  analysed  all  sorts  of  trades^  pursuits,  productions, 
merriments,  and  disasters.  As  every  thing  which  is  saleable,  is  on  a 
level  with  the  above  gentlemen,  so  every  thing  which  has  a  Latin  word 
for  it,  is  equally  important  to  the  creator  of  the  Orbis  Pictus;  fpr  so 
the  book  i§  called. 

He  sees  with  equal  eye,  as  construing  all, 
. ,  A  hero  perish  or  a  sparrow  fall. 

The  Tormenting  of  Malefactors,  Supplicia  Malefactorum,  is  no  more 
to  him  than  The  Making  of  Honey,  or  Mellificium.  Shipwreck,  being 
Naufraglum,  he  holds  in  no  graver  lighJL  than  a  Feast,  which  is  Convi- 
vium  ;  and  the  Feast  is  no  merrier  than  the  Shipwreck,  He  has  wood- 
cuts, with  numerals  against  the  figures^  to  which  the  letter-press  re- 
Voi;.  II. 


THE  INDICATOR. 


fers.  In  one  of  these  his  "  Deformed  and  Monstrous  People,"  cut  as 
jaunty  a  figure  as  his  Adam  and  Eve,  and  seem  to  pique  themselves  on 
their  ancient  titles  of  Deformes  et  Monstrosi.  In  another  the  Soul  of 
Man  is  described  by  a  bodily  outline  standing  against  a  sheet.  He  i« 
never  moved  but  by  some  point  of  faith.  Thus  Godliness,  he  says, 
treads  Reason  under  foot,  that  barking  Dog,  No.  6. — Oblatrantem 
Canem,  6,  The  translation,  observcj  is  quite  worthy  of  the  original. 
Again : — 


Woe  to  the  mad 
Wizards  and  Witches, 
who  give  themselves  to  the  Devil 
(being  enclosed  in  a  Circle,  7. 
calling  upon  him 
with  Charms) 
Ihey  dally  with  him 
and  fall  from  God ! 
for  they  shall  receive  their  re- 
tpard  with  him. 


VcE  deinentibus 
Magis  et  Lamiis, 
qui  Cacodoemoni  se  dedunt 
(inclusi  Circulo,  7. 
eum  advocantes 
incantamentis) 
cum  eo  coUudunt 
et  a  Deo  deficiunt  I 
nam  cum  illo 
mercedem  accipient. 


But  of  the  Fall  of  Adam  and  Eve,  he  contents  himself  with  this  pithy 
clccount  :-^ 


These,  being  tempted 
by  the  Devil  under  the  shape 
of  a  serpent,  3. 
when  they  had  eaten  of  the 
fruit  of  the  forbidden  Tree,  4. 
were  condemned,  (Five). 
to  misery  and  death, 
with  all  their  posterity, 
and  cast  out  of  Paradise,  6. 


Hi,  seducti 
a  Diabolo  sub  specie 
Serpentis,  S, 
cum  comederunt 
de  fructu  vetitae  Arboris,  4. 
damnati  sunt,  5. 
ad  miseriam  et  mortem 
cum  omni  posteritate  sua, 
et  ejecti  e  Paj-adiso,  6. 


Opposite  to  this,  is  the  account  of  fish  :— 


Add  Herrings,  7. 
wliich  are  brought  pickled, 
and  Place,  8.  and  Cod,  9. 
which  are  brought  dry  ; 
and  the  sea^monsters,  &c. 

Of  a  similar  aspect  of  complacency 

When  the  Godly  and  Elect,  4. 
shall  enter  into  life  eternal, 
into  the  place  of  Bliss, 
and  the  new  Jerusalem,  5. 
But  the  wicked 
and  the  damned,  6; 
shall  be  thrust  into  Hell,  (No.  8.) 
with  the  Devils  (Seven) 
to  be  thtre  tormented  for  ever* 


Adde  Haleces,  7. 
qui  salsi, 

et  Passeres,  8.  cum  Ascllis,  9. 
qui  adferuntur  arefacti ; 
et  monstra  marina,  &c. 

is  his  account  of  the  Last  Judgment ; 

Ubi  pii  ( justi)  et  Electi,  4. 
introibunt  in  vitam  eternam, 
in  locum  Beatitudinis, 
et  novam  Hierosolymam,  5. 
Impii  vero 
•  et  damnati,  6. 
cum  Cacodoemonibus,  7. 
in  Gehennam,  8.  detrudentur, 
ibi  cruclaadi  aeternum. 


THE  INDICATOR. 


The  Shipwreck  ends  genteelly: 

Some  escape 
either  on  a  Plank,  7. 
and  by  swimming, 
or  in  a  Boat,  8. 
Part  of  the  Wares, 
with  the  DEAD  Folks, 
is  carried  out  of  the  sea,  9. 
upon  the  shores. 

So  in  The  Tormenting  of  Malefactors,  he  speaks  of  torture  in  a  paren- 
thesis, and  talks  of  pulling  traitors  in  pieces  in  the  style  of  a  nota-bene. 
'*  They  that  have  their  life  given  them"  appear  to  be  still  worse  oiF. 


Quidam  evadunt, 
vel  tabula,  7. 
ac  enatando, 
vel  Scapha,  8. 
Pars  MerciuQi 
cum  mortuis 
a  Mari,  9.  in  littora  defertur. 


Malefactors,  1. 
are  brought 
from  the  Prison,  3. 
(where  they  are  wont  to  be 
tortured)  by  Seijeants,  3. 
Some  before  they  are  exe- 
cuted have  their  Tongues  cut 
out,  11. 

or  have  their  Hand,  12. 
cut  off  upon  a  Block,  13. 
or  are  burnt  with  Pincers,  14. 
They  that  have  their  Life 
given  them, 

are  set  on  the  pillory,  16. 
are  atrapado'd,  17. 
are  set  upon  a  Wooden  Horse,  18. 
have  their  ears  cut  otf,  19. 
are  whipped  with  Rods,  20. 
are  branded, 
are  banished, 
are  condemned 
to  the  Gallies, 
or  to  perpetual  Imprisonment. 

Traitors  are  pulled  in  pieces 
with  four  Horses. 


Malefici,  1. 

producuntur 

h  Carcere,  3. 

(ubi  torqueri  solent) 

per  Lictores,  2. 

Quidam  antequam  supplicio 

afficiantur  elinguantur,  11. 

aut  plectuntur  Manu,  12. 
super  cippum,  13. 
aut  P'orcipibus,  14.  uraatur. 
Vita  donati 

constringuntur  Numellis,  16. 

luxantur,  17. 

imponuntur  Equuleo,  18. 

truncantur  Auribus,  19. 

caeduntur  Virgis,  20. 

stigmate  notantiir, 

relegantur, 

damnantur 

ad  Triremes, 

vel  ad  Carcerem  perpetuam. 

Perduelles  discerpuntur 
quadrigis. 


The  reader  must  regard  this  venerable  work  as  a  book  taken  up 
before  breakfast ;  for  as  we  are  to  be  full  of  good  things  in  our  present 
number,  we  take  a  refuge  very  common  to  those  who  have  no  better, 
and  invite  him  to  discuss  (a  word,  by  the  bye,  of  much-injured  meta- 
phorical common-place,  which  we  hereby  restore  to  its  ingenuity)  some 
rolls  and  ham  with  us.  It  is  astonishing  what  good  company  agentle- 
■can  can  make  himself,  by  means  of  this  kind.  A  breakfast  may  be 
t'loqoent :  a  dinner  is  sure  to  be  so.  The  very  decantering  of  his  wine 
Bhall  *'  discourse  excellent  music"  for  him.    His  good  things  are  all  of 


i^»V.>"iife  &»»— 


THE  INDICATOll. 


the  best,  substantial,  and  intelligible.  He  is  solid  over  his  beef.  His 
jeu  d'esprit  is  a  bottle  of  soda,  "j  A  little  more  of  the  sounds  ?" — :"  a 
Itttle  stewed  lobster  ?" — "  a  leetle  more  lemon  to  the  currie  ?"— 
"  some  stuffing?" — "  more  ^ropse  ?"  — "  let  me  recommend  this 
blanc-manger — this  cream-pancakei — this  custard  with  your  tart--thes'o 
,  brandy-aprieots — these  olives — a  devil— hah  !  (smacking  his  lips)  thiis 
is  the  old  wine  I  told  you  of,  sure  enough:" — phrases  of  this  kind, 
judiciously  administered,  shall  outfival  twice  as  many  bon-mols.  They 
shall  produce  a  profound  sensation, — an  absolute  severity  of  satisfac- 
tion.  We  have  known  a  gentleman,  remarkable  for'a  ccrtaiiV  festive 
taciturnity,  sit  at  the  head  of  his  table  ;  and  by  dint  of  thefee  commen- 
datory syllables,  united  to  the  reputation  of  knowing  more  than  he 
said,  make  a  wit  feel  doubtful  of  the  merit  of  being  facetious,  and  fear- 
ful how  he  interrupted  so  intense  a  conviviality. 

And  here,  (before  thfe  rolls  corne  up),  we  may  notice  a  compromis 
ing  kind  of  it,  which  would  see  fair  play  between  ideas  and  no  ideas, 
and  might  be  imitated  "to  advantage  by  those  who  would  willingly  say 
something  and  yet  nothing.  I*olite  Conversation,  as  detailed  by  Swift, 
has  had  its  day  ;  SO  that  if  the  genteel  have  n"o  new  novel  or  scandal  to 
discourse  of,  they  will  father  say  nothing  than  not  appear  knowing  or 
literary.  The  jokes  about  "  rny  Lord  Mayor's  fool,"  and  "  rrone  the 
better  fo;*.  seeing  you,"  and  "  Pry  thee,  Tom,  how,  is  it  you  can't  sele 
the  wood  for  trees,"  have  beeii  Superseded  by  the  Periodical  Piiblicaf- 
tions.  Now  the'wittock  we'spealiof  (tou§e  aScotch  diminutive)  is  akih 
to  piinningj'irias'much  as  it  plays  upon  words  ;  so  that  at  any  late  sonife 
verbal  knowledge  is  requisite  fo'r  those  who  handle  it ;  and  herein  i\be 
advantage  proposed  to  the  dining  circles  is  evident,  it  is  practised 
with  great  applatise  by  a  friend  of  ours,  and  may  be  called  the  Art  of 
Translating  a  Language'into  Itself.  Thus,  to  break  signifying  also  tb 
fracture,  and  fast  being,  in  Ond  sertse,  the  same  as  rapid,  the  wag 'in 
question  calls  Breakfasting,  Frafcttiring  one's  Rapid,  Cold  Mutt'oh 
he  translates  into  Frigid  Sheep.  Foreign  Pickle  is  Peregrine  Pickle. 
Some  Bacon  is  a  Piece  of  the  Viscount  St.  Albans  ; — or  in  removing 
bacon  for  some  other  dish,  he  ietOmmends  you  to  put  it  <*''''  ■''■'' 

Nigh  where  the.gobdly  Verulam  stood  of  yore.  ;  ;    .  i  •, 

Greens  are  Verdants  ;  and  as  Verd  means  Green,  and  Gr^eln  mearfs 
Inexperienced,  and  Ants  has  a  sound  like  Aunts,  he  calls  them,  by  a 
diffuser  version,  Inexperienced  Sisters  of  one's  Father.  Pulling  (be 
Bell  is  Romping  with  the  Beauty  ;  and  Bringing:  up  the  Urn,  Educat- 
ing the  Sarcophagus.  There  is  eminent  authority  for  thiS;  kind  of 
translation  into  other  languages; — as  the  Latin  conversion  attributed 
to  Dr.  Johnson  of  a  Tea-chest  into  the  second  person  singular  of  the 
verb  Doceo,  to  teach ;  and  Hogarth's  epistolary  drawing,  inviting  a 
friend,  in  three  Greek  letters,  to  Eta  Beta  Pi.  But  our  friend  coi>r 
trives  to  be  learned,  while  adhering  to  his  own  language;  and  pours 
forth  a  profusion  of  synonimous  trifling,  whicli  we,  of  all  persons, 
shall  certainly  not  quarrel  with,  seeing  that  he  does  it  out  cf  die  div 
light  of  escaping  from  his  studies,  and  feeling  hi^, kindred  or  hii  frieivdo 


THE  INDICATOR,  $ 

aboirt  h\ta.  We  were  much  pfeased  tke  othet  day,  101*15159  sake,  in 
hearing  of  art  eminent  living  philosopher  of  our  acqiiai«tance,  who  in  .. 
the  midst  of  his  white  locks  still  retains  his  love  of  veriml  joking,  and 
•delights  to  higlp  his  young  companions  to  a  jest  aa  well  as  some  soup. 
He  lets,  in  particular,  his  political  &pl€en  take  breath  hy  it.  One  dislj, 
'which  he  is  fondest. of. cutting  up,  he  calls  after  such  and  such  a  statesj- 
man.  He  shakes  his  head  at  another,  and  says  there  is  too  much  High 
Church  in  it:  To  your  veal  he  recommends  a' squeeze  of  the  Judge.- 
An  old  schoolfellbw  of  ours,  with  whom  we  used  to  breakfast  ia 
high  glee  and  a  study  four  feet  square,  possesses,  almost  beyond  any 
man  we  ever  met  with,  this  talent  of  converting  one  idea  into  another, 
and  being  equally  merry  in  his  mirth  and  his  gravity.  We  remember 
the  irresistible  effect,  which  his  reception  of  la  beating  from  the  master 
used  to  have  upon  us  all.  His  gesticulations  of  agony  wei:e  so  abrupt, 
varied,  and  extravagant,  that  the  master  and  the  boys  used  to  be 
equally  perplexed, — the  latter  how*  to  keep  themselves  from  laughing 
out  loud,  and  the  former  whether  to  take  it  as  something  extremely 
wretched  or  contemptuous.  Either  expression  was  equally  unusual 
in  a  school  so  well  attempered  as.  ours.  He  was  found  out  at  last,  and 
-compelled  to  take  care  of  his  jokes.  His  gravity,  however,  was  under 
suspicion  to  the  la^t.  When  the  master  was  about  to  retire  from  his  office, 
he  received,  for  an  exercise,  a  set  of  Latin  Verses  from  him,  in  which 
there  was  a  pathetic  adieu,  apostrophizing  him  Under  the  title  of  ''  Re- 
verende  Magister."  The  old  gentleman,  not  much  accustomed  to  the 
melting  mood  at  anytime,  or  to  the  dry  one  often,  turned  round  to 
him  whh  a  face  of  ludicrous  gratitude,  and  said  "Thank' y^j  P." 
He  used  to  perplex  him  also,  as  well  as  us  all,  by  taking  advantage  of 
a  permission  we  had  of  being  facetious  in  verse-making,  and  giving  up 
the  most  extravagant  versions  of  English  nursery-songs,  such  as  Jack 
and  Gill,  aiid  When  I  was  a  bachelor.  Like  all  young  wits  who  are 
scholars,  he  liked  to  give  a  ludicrbus  digoity  to  common-places  by  the 
gravity  of  a  learned  language.  He  kept  his  tea  and  sugar  memoran- 
dums in  Latin  ;  used  to  call  out  for  the  boy  who  kept  a  "door,  under 
the  title  of  Janitor  Aulaj ;  and  gave  us  a  little  pocket  edition  of  Bu- 
chanan, which  we  have  now  by  us,  as  a  pledge  and  monvment  of  his 
friendship, — ■"  pignus  et  monumehtum.''  He  said  of  a  fellow-wag, 
who  was  accustomed  to  exaggerate,  "  When  so  and  so  relates  a  story, 
you  must  multiply  by  hundreds,  divide  by  thousands,  and  make  al- 
lowance in  the  qxiotient  for  oriental  grandeur."  The  same,  spirit  ac- 
companied him  to  college,  where  it  is  understood  he  might  have  got 
what  classical  honours  he  pleased,  had  not  the  gravity  of  his  answers 
at  examination  been  questionable.  He  then  went  into  orders,  4nd  be- 
'came  remarkable  for  the  dignity  of  his  voice  and  manner  in  the  pulpit, 
while  he  retair.ed  all  the  jocose  part  of  his  character  among  his  friends. 
*'  What  words"  (literally)  "  have  we' not  heard  at  the  Mermaid  ?" — . 
No  man  ever  got  op  a  little  festive  meeting  with  a  more  orthodox  grace. 
If  port  was  not  liked  by  any  cive,  he  found  a  bottle  of  ciaret  by 
his  plate  ;  and  we  shall  always  retain  a  grateful  recollection  of  his 
olives.     It  is  a  fault  somelimes  found  with  wits,  and  justly,  that  their 


«  THE  INDICATOR. 

animals  spirits  carry  them  away  from  a  proper  attentireness  to  others. 
This  nerer  was  his  case.  He  had  a  handsome  faculty,  not  only  of  being 
pleasant  himself,  bat  of  extracting  all  that  could  be  got  out  of  others. 
To  strangers  he  would  sometimes  be  more  disconcerting,  like  Swift ;  to 
whose  face,  by  the  way,  he  bore  some  resemblance,  if  the  Dean*s 
picture  is  like  in  Sharpens  edition  of  the  Spectator.  He  turned  round 
once  upon  a  man  in  Holborn,  and  asked  him  with  an  air  of  zealous 
appeal,  whether  he  had  erer  injured  his  wife  and  family ;  upon  which 
the  astonished  passenger  declaring  he  had  not ;  "  Then,  Sir,"  said  he, 
*'  I  will  thank  yoo,  another  time,  not  to  tread  my  shoe  down  at  heel." 
There  was  a  hage  fellow  one  evening  making  a  great  noise  in  a  coffee- 
house, about  a  prize  ox  he  had  seen.  "  I  have  heard  of  the  carcase,*' 
says  P.  **  The  carcase;"  cries  the  other,  with  a  sort  of  triumph  of 
kiiowledge : — **  its  alive,  Sir  ;  its  alive  ;  and  live  bodies  are  not  called 
carcases."  ^' Good,"  says  the  other,  looking  at  him,  **  but  I  pre- 
sume they  may  deserve  the  name."  He  said  this  with  so  indifferent 
and  yet  so  particular  an  air^  that  neither  the  man  could  be  offended, 
nor  the  company  refrain  from  laughing.  At  another  time,  being 
in  the  cider-cellar  in  Maiden-lane,  and  one  of  our  party  having 
said  something  in  Latin,  without  the  least  intention  of  being  over- 
'heard,  a  military  gentleman,  somewhat  irritable  with  having  more 
wine  than  wit,  said  out  loud,  that  he  did  not  conceive  a  public  room 
a  fit  place  to  talk  Latin  in.  We  forget  what  our  school-fellow  said  to 
this  ;  but  the  consequence  of  his  enlisting  the  company  on  our  side 
with  his  jokes,  that  the  captain  proposed  to  give  him  his  address. 
"  Sir,"  says  P.  with  great  gravity,  *'  you  need  not  trouble  yourself 
with  a  specimen:  I  never  had  any  doubt  of  your  being  a  man  of  ad- 
dress.'* ''  Sir,"  returned  the  captain  more  vehemently,  his  voice  a 
little  titabating  with  wine—**  You  will  not— then — take  my  address?*' 
**  Oh,  excuse  me.  Sir,"  replied  the  other,  "I  do  take  it  infinitely; 
and^  all  the  rest  of  us  take  it."  By  this  time,  the  amusement 
of  the  audience  had  much  increased.  *'  Sir  !"  repeated  the  of- 
ficer, half  rising  from  his  seat,  and  tumbling  a  little  towards  him  with 
pipe  in  band  and  angry  wonder  in  his  eye, — "  I  say,  Sir,— do  you 
mean  to  say,  Sir, — -you  know  what  I  mean— 1  mean  to  say,  Sir,  I'll  give 
you  my  address;  that's  what  I  mean."  "  But,  Sir,"  retorted  our  inflexible 
companion,  **  you  must  allow  me  to  say  that  your  liberality  is  really 
superfluous  ;  since  to  confess  the  truth,  I  really  don't  at  all  approve  of 
your  address."  At  this,  the  tottering  man,  (who  you  might  see  by 
bis  face  was  good  humoured  enough,  and  worth  being  parried  in  this 
way  by  a  gentleman)  staggered  up  to  his  antagonist,  and  held  out  his 
hand  to  him,  declaring  he  was  one  of  the  pleasantest  fellows  he  ever 
met  with  in  the  whole  cours<i,of  his  life,  and  nothing  should  induce  him 
to  quarrel  with  him. 

We  do  not  profess  any  practical  science  in  meal^.  Those  who  do 
will  despise  us  at  once,  when  they  hear  that  we  prefer  breakfast  and 
tea  to  dinner,  and  that  by  breakfast  we  mean  a  very  common  one. 
But  we  know  what  belongs  to  a  meal.  There  was  a  lay-schoolfellow 
of  ours,  who  was  alvfays  proposing  to  treat  some  of  us  at  a  tavern ; 


THE  INDICATOR.  f 

though  he  never  did.  lie  contented  himself  with  oaBtlng  up  what  he 
called  "  the  damages."  He  used  to  cry  out  on  a  sudden,  **  It  doesn't 
signify  talking,  but  we  will  have  that  dinner  I  spoke  of,  this  afternoon. 
Come  now:  I'm  serious^  Let  us  seet  what  will  be  the  damages?** 
He  would  then  take  pen,  ink,  and  paper,  and  fall  to  making  out  a 
grave  list  of  fish,  flesh,  and  tart;  till  the  exceeding  "vrlsh  to  realize  it^ 
almost  made  dupes  of  our  clowtered  imaginations  for  the  seventh  time» 
The  worst  of  it  was,  that  he  himself  used  to  go  home,  and  feast  on  wha« 
he  had  been  speaking  of;  while  we  were  rung  up  in  the  hall,  and 
dined  like  the  monks  Of  La  Trappe*  We  shall  rererse  the  spirit  of 
this  vagary.  Our  breakfast  will  be  upon  paper,  but  onr  readers  shall 
have  more  than  we  are  in  the  habit  of  seeing  on  our  table.  Students 
are  at  once  tempted  to  exceed,  and  obliged  to  be  temperate.  The  ex- 
haustion of  their  faculties  excites  them  to  indulge  a  morbid  appetite  ; 
while  the  delicacy  of  stomach  produced  by  that  exhaustion,  makes 
Ihem  cautious  how  they  render  it  greater  next  time. 

What  shall  we  say  then  ?  For  **  It  does  not  signify  talking."  We 
will  have  the  breakfast  he  spoke  of.  And  here  it  is,  ready  laid.  Im» 
primis,  tea  and  coffee  ;  secondly,  dry  toast ;  thirdly,  butter ;  fourthly, 
eggs ;  fifthly,  ham  ;  sixthly,  something  potted  ;  seventhly,  bread,  saltj 
mustard,  knives  and  forks,  &c.  One  of  the  first  things  that  belong  td 
a  breakfast  is  a  good  fire.  There  is  a  delightful  mixtnre  of  the  lively 
and  the  snug  in  coming  down  into  one's  breakfast*room  of  a  cold 
^norning,  and  seeing  everything  prepared  for  us;  a  blazing  grate,  a  ■ 
clean  table-cloth  and  tea-things,  the  newly-washed  feces  and  combed 
heads  of  a  set  of  good-humoured  urchins,  and  the  sole  empty  chair  at 
its  accustomed  corner,  ready  for  occupation.  When  we  Hred  alone, 
we  could  not  help  reading  at  meals :  and  it  is  certainly  a  delicious 
thing  to  resume  an  entertaining  book  at  a  particularly  interesting  pas- 
sage, with  a  hot  cup  of  tea  at  one's  elbow,  and  a  piece  of  buttered  toast 
in  one's  hand.  The  first  look  at  the  page,  accompanied  by  a  co- 
existent bite  of  the  toast,  comes  under  the  head  of  intensities.  But 
•when  in  company,  unless  it  is^f  a  very  private  and  pardoning  descrip- 
tion, it  is  of  course  not  to  be  done,  unless  all  read ;  and  A  general 
reading  in  company  is  a  sort  of  understood  talking.  ITie  most  allow- 
able perusal  is  that  of  a  newspaper.  It  involves  a  common  interest, 
and  is  in  itself  a  very  sufficing  and  matutine  thing.  But  we  have  en- 
larged on  the  pleasure  of  a  breakfast-paper  elsewhere  in  an  article 
entitled  a  Day  by  the  Fire;  which,  by  the  way,  will  prevent  us  from, 
indulging  ourselves  in  other  particulars  appertaining  to  the  present  sub- 
ject. We  have  it  not  by  us,  nor  are  we  aware  that  we  have  mentioned 
what  We  are  going  to  notice  before :  but  we  wish  to  observe,  that 
ladies,  always  delightful,  and  not  the  least  so  in  their  undress,  are 
apt  to  deprive  themselves  of  some  of  their  best  morning  beams  by 
appearing  with  their  hair  in  papers.  We  give  notice,  that  essayists, 
and  of  course  all  people  of  taste,  prefer  a  cap,  if  there  must  be  any 
thing  ;  but  hair,  a  million  times  over.  To  see  grapes  in  paper-bags  is 
bad  enough  ;  but  the  rich  locks  of  a  lady  in  papers,  the  roots  of 
the  hair  twisted  up  like  a  drummer's,  and  the  forehead  staring  bald  in^ 


n  THE  INDICATOR. 

si^VL^  of  being  gracefully  tentlrillcd  ami  sha<3owec!  ! — it  is  a  capital  of- 
t't'Hce, — ack'figiuce  lo  the  love  and  admiration  of  the  other  sex, — a  pro- 
vocative to  a  paper  war  :  and  we  here  accordingly  declare  the  said  war 
on  f.aper,  nothavliig  any  ladieij  at  hand  to  cany  it  at  once  into  their 
bead'-quarterg.  We  mtist  allow  at  the  same  time,  that  they  are  very 
shy  of  being  seen  in  this  condition,  knowing  well  enough,  how  much 
of  thel.r  strength,  like  Sampson's,  lies  ?n  that  gifted  ornament.  We 
have  known  a  whole  parlour  of  theoi  iluttered  off,  like  a  dove-cote,at 
the  sight  of  a  friend  coming  up  the  garden.  ' 

But  to  return  to  our  table.  Ham  is  a  good  thing;  but  it  is  apt. tb 
fjevei  our  s-edentary  notions.  We  prefer  cracking  the  round  end  of  an 
fgg  with:the  back  of  a  silver-spoon,- — not  a  horn-spoon, -which  is  flimsy 
and  inefficient.  A  judicious  jerk  of  the  former  upon  a  good,  fair,  dome- 
Jik*?  shell  issuing  out  of  the  egg-cup,  maketh  a  pretty  result  to  the  sen* 
£Dtiotis.  We  cannot,  in  conscience,  recommend  hot  buttered  toast; 
but  it  is  a  pleasing  guilt.  The  best  adventure  to  which  it  can  give  rise^ 
is  *then  you  hiive  modestly  taken  one  of  the  outside  pieces,  and  find 
-your  gentility  rewarded  by  catrying  off  the  whole  of  the  crumb-part 
of  the  inner-one,  the  crust  of  which  has  been  detached.  Chocolate 
Jtas  a  nu(ty  taste,  but  isrheav)-.  Coffee  is  heating,  but  has  a  fine  serious 
flpvour  in  it,  if  well  <lone.  You  seefti  to  taste  the  colour  of  it.  We 
used  to  prefer  it  at  all  times;  but  tea  has  become  preferable  to 
the-  meditative  5tate  of  our  digestion.  How  the  Chinese  came  to'ih-< 
vent  it,  as  Sancho  would  say,  we  do  not  know  ;  but  it  is  the  most  in- 
genious,  humane,  and  poetical  of  tbjeir  discoveries.  It  is  their  ep£c 
.poetn.  '.■'.'.    \:.  ■■^.  .    ■'  '■•}:, 

[We  are  compelled  abruptly  to  finish  "  fracturing  our  rapid'',  for 
w«i»i  of  room.] 

J^«nif  ■  . :    .  . 

^ftl;;  ^:^   3:;;  >!ool    ^ 


Printwl  and  puMUliPcl  by  Josrph  AppiETAR'b,  No.  19,  Cnllierine-street,  Strand. 
Price  2d.— And  sold  aUd  by  A.  GLiDnoN,  Importer  of  SmifTs,  No.  31,  Tavislork- 
sticet,  Covent-ijnrdeii.     Orders  received  at  the  above  places,  and  by  all  Book- 

•     sellers  and  Newsineut 


u^h- 


-i^oo!  .i'>I  luoiiVi  i;  'jAil    ..  ..  .      .     .  .   ■. 

.■;•!   i.ti"  ;).;;"  ,-^   ■,':  ,/      ■..  ,.    •   ,  . 

.1  •rloia    smJ   O)   ;•  >T!ier«  he  arriving  round  about  doth  flie,  '  'lOt'^j  itiJi'ia;  ; .  > 

»       .Jinifn^'Jlb    '>-j4*)(i,takes.sury(ey  with  busiecudous  eye:  i    '    .    ,  '     ■ 

_  .'      I    .  Now  tttis, -now  that,  he  tasteth  tenderly. 

lo  bfio'l  :    . 

■/Jlatiioji  ';ji  .rl-.,:;;,/--.";  r   :;,:')  t^vui   ut^  m.lV  •' 

nNo.MV.t-*  WE  ONES  DAY,  OCTOBER  18th,  1820,    . 


•    '"■       ■  ">;  li'-i'lll'''  'c'.  '»!!;. '.  .      .-.....;;   ....     ,  .   ; 

'  -.  .      ......_......  .^    ..  'OF- dreams;- i!  ^j;,'-i/;';!i^.rivM:;ji' :-;, - 

■Ji/il)  ti;  f':n-ro^tu    '.vih!ii;e;r<ir,     ■-.  '  h';  ,-i:^}.i(:i;!l  i,;,.h  •;;.„,/. u;  .•■ 

i-  iTh*  t«f^eri{tlists'a;ti3  psychologists  are  at  issue  opon  the  Subject  of 
dreams.  The  latter  hold  them  to  be  one  among  the  many  proofs  of 
the  existence  of  a  soul:  the  former  endeavour  to  account  for  them 
upoo. principles  altogether  corporeal.  We  must  own,  that  the  effects 
of  their  respective  arguments,  as  is  usual  with  us  on  these  occasions,  is 
iiot  80  muiCh,  to -satisfy  iiswith  either,  as  to.  dissatisfy  fisvpith  both.  The. 
p.sycholb£;ist,  with. all  his. struggles,,  never  appeaiis  tp  be  able  to  get  rid 
of. his  body';  and  the  materialist  leaves  something  extremely  deficieuf: 
in  'the  ivltaciity  of  his  .proofs, by  his  ignorance  of  that  Pfimum  Mobile, 
which  is.tbe  soul  of  every  thing.  In  the^,  mean  time,  ^while  they  go  oi^ 
with  til HT  laudable. eriquirLes  (for  wWch  we. have  a  very  sipcere  re* 
Sppect),  it  is  our, business,  to,  go.  on.,rQeoBi!iieu{iit)gg,.tq.ste  for  results  as 
■well  as  causes,  and  turning  eyery  thUig  to  ^ccou»(  in  this  beautiful 
star'of  oursi  the  earth,'  whether  body  or,  sou}.  Thpre  is  no  reason 
vhy.the  mogt  learned  investigator  of  (he  ipost  subtle  mysteries  should 
not  enjoy  his  existetice,  ,and  h*ve  his  earthly  drearps  made  as  pleasant 
as  possible  :  and  for  our  parts  we  see  nothing  at  present,  either  in  body 
or  soul,  but  a  medium  for  a  world  of  perceptions,  the  very  unplea- 
santest  of  whose  dreams  are  but  warnings  to  us  how  we  depart  from 
the  health  and  natural  piety  of  the  pleasant  ones. 

What  seems  incontrovertible  in  the  case  of  dreams  isj  that  they  are 
most.apt  to  take  place  when  the  body  is  most  affected.  They  seem  to 
turn  most  upon;  us,  when  the  suspension  of  the  will  has  been  reduced 

*  The  last  IxDJCATdR  ^vvas  by  mistake  numbered  J.  It  should  have  been  LIIL, 
according  to. thev^iieraHle  con!>in'uo«s  principle,  in  these  cases  made  and  provided. 
The  reader  will  be  g'?G>d'ea»(i.g.li  te'alter  it  with  bis  pen. 

Vol.  ir.-    ■■      ^:  ■'■'.>":'  ■ 


10  THE  INDICATOR. 

to  its  most  helpless  state  by  indulgence.  The  door  of  the  fancy  is  left 
■without  its  keeper  ;  and  forth  issue,  pell  raell,  the  whole  rout  of  ideas 
or  images,  which  had  been  previously  stored  within  the  brain  and  kept 
to  their  respective  duties.  They  are  like  a  school  let  loose,  or  the 
winds  in  Virgil,  or  Lord  Anson's  drunken  sailors  at  Panama,  who 
dressed  themselves  up  in  all  Sorts  of  ridiculoiis  apjpard  ;  only  they  are 
far  more  wild,  winged,  and  fantastic.  ^  • 

We  were  about  to  say,  that  being  writers,  Ave  are  of  necessity 
dreamers;  for  thinking  disposes  the  bodily  faculties  to  be  more  than 
usually  affected  by  the  causes  that  generally  produce  dreaming.  But 
extremes  appear  to  meet  on  this  as  on  other  occasions  ;  at  least  as  far 
as  the  meditative  power  is  concerned;  for  there  is  an  excellent  rea- 
soner,  now  living,  who  telling  another  that  he  was  not  fond  of  the 
wHder  parts  of  the  Arabian  Nights,  was  answered,  with  great  felicity, 
*'  Then  you  never  dream  :"— which,  it  turned  out,  was  actually  the 
case.  Here  the  link  is  totally  lost,  that  connects  a  tendency  to  indi- 
gestion with  thinking  ou  the  one  hand,  a,nd  dreaming  on  the  other.  If 
we  are  to  believe  Herodotus,  the  Atlantes,  an  African  people,  never 
dreamt ;  which  Montaigne  is  willing  to  attribute  to  their  never  having 
eaten  any  thing  that  died  of  itself.  It  is  to  be  presumed  that  he  looked 
upon  their  temperance  as  a  matter  of  course.  The  same  philosopher, 
who  was  a  deep  thinker,  and  of  a  delicate  qonsirtution,  informs  us  tha^ 
he  himself  dreamt  but  sparingly ;  but  then  when  he  did,  Tils  dreims 
were  fantastic  though  chearful.  This  Is  the  very  triumph  of  the  ani- 
mal spirits,  to  unite  the  strangeness  of  sick  dreams  with  the  chearful- 
ness  of  healthy  ones.  To  these  exceptions  against  the  usual  theories^ 
tve  may  add,  that  dreams,  when  they  occur,  are  by  no  means  modified 
of  necessity  by  what  the  mind  has  been  occupied,  vvith  in  the  course  of 
the  day,  or  eVen  of  mt>nths ;  for  during  our  two  years'  confinement 
in  prison,  we  have  a  strong  recollection  that  we  did  not  dream  more 
than  twice  of  our  chief  subjects  of  reflection,  the  prison  itself  not  ex- 
cepted. The  two  dreams  were  both  about  the  latter,  and  both  the 
same.  We  fancied  that  we  had  slipped  out  of  jail,  and  gone  to  the 
theatre,  Where  we  Were  much  horrified  by  seeing  the  faces  of  the  whole 
audience  unexpectedly  turned  upon  us. 

It  is  certain  enough  however  that  dreams  in  general  proceed  from 
indigestion ;  and  it  appears  nearly  as  much  so,  that  they  are  more  or 
less  strange  according  to  the  waking  fancy  of  the  dreamer. 

All  dreams,  as  m  old  Galen  I  have  read> 

Are  fi:om  repletion  and  complexion  bred. 

From  rising  fumes  of  indigested  food. 

And  noxious  humours  tliat  infect  the  blood. 

■■ — When  choler  overflnws,  then  dreams  are  bred 

Of  flames,  and  all  the  fzmily  of  red. 

-^Choler  adust  congeals  the  blood  with  fear. 

Then  black  bulls  toss  us,  and  black  devils  tear. 

In  sanguine  airy  dreams  aloft  we  bound. 

With  rheums  oppressed  we  sink,  in  rivers  drowned. 

DRVDfiN's  Cook  aHd  the  F^yxfrom  Cfiaucer. 


THE  INDICATOR.  €1 

Again,  in  another  passage  which  is  worth  quoting  instead  of  the  origi- 
nal,  and  affords  a  good  terse  specimen  of  the  author's  versification  :— 

Dreams  are  but  interludes  which  Fancy  makes ; 
When  monarch  Reason  sleeps,  this  mimic  wakes : 
Compounds  a  medley  of  disjoinied  things, 
A  mob  of  coblers  and  a  court  of  kings  :  * 
Light  fumes  are  merry,  grosser  fumes  are  sad  : 
Both  are  the  reasonable  soul  run  mad  ; 
And  many  monstrous  forms  in  sleep  we  see, 
That  neither  were,  nor  are,  nor  e'er  can  be. 
Sometimes  forgotten  tilings  long  cast  behind 
Rush  forward  in  the  brnin,  and  come  to  mind. 
The  nurse's  legends  are  for  truths  receiv'd. 
And  the  man  dreams  but  what  tlie  boy  believ'd  ; 
Sometimes  we  but  rehearse  a  former  play, 
The  night  restores  our  actions  done  by  day  ; 
As  hounds  in  sleep  will  open  for  their  prey. 
In  short  the  farce  of  dreams  is  of  a  piece. 
Chimeras  all ;  and  more  absurd  or  less. 

It  is  probable,  at  the  same  time,  that  a  trivial  degree  of  indigestion 
•will  give  rise  to  very  fantastic  dreams  in  a  fanciful  mind  ;  while  on  the 
other  hand  a  good  orthodox  repletion  is  necessary  towards  a  fanciful 
creation  in  a  dull  one.  It  shall  make  an  epicure,  of  any  viracity,  act  as 
many  parts  in  his  sleep,  as  a^  tragedian  '^  for  that  night  only."  The 
inspirations  of  veal  in  particular  are  accounted  extremely  Delphit : 
Italian  pickles  partake  of  the  spirit  of  Daihte ;  and  a  butter-boat  shall 
contain  as  many  ghosts  as  Charon's. 

There  is  a  passage  in  Lucian,  which  would  have  made  a  good  sub- 
ject  for  those  who  painted  the  temptations  of  the  saints.  It  is  a  de- 
scription of  the  City  of  Dreams,  very  lively  and  crowded.  "We  quote 
after  Natalis  Comes,  not  having  the  True  History  by  us.  The  city,  w6 
are  told,  stands  in  an  immense  plain,  surrounded  by  a  thick  forest  of 
tall  poppy  triees,  alnd  enormous  mandragoras.  The  plain  is  also  full  of 
all  sorts  bf  somniculous  plants;  and  the  trees  are  haunted  with  rauli!-. 
tuiles  Of  owls  and  bats,  but  no  other  biVd.  The  city  is  washed  by  the 
river' Lethe,  Called  by  others  the  Night-bringer,  whose  course  is  indul 
dible  and  like  tft^' no^Virig  df  6iU '  fSpenser's  follower  Browne  ha's 
bee^here;  /       '      =^^^^"-  '  '  .-:      -        '  ■- 

Where  consort  hone  otliei' fowl 

Save  the  bat  and  sullen  owl ; 

Where  flows  Lethe  without  coil, 

Softly,  like  a  stream  of  oil. 

Inner  Temple  Mask.) 

There  are  two  gates  to  the  city;  one  of  horn,  in  which  almost  ev(?fy 
thing  that  can  happen  in  sleep  is  represented,  as  in  a  transparejicy '; 
the  other  of  ivory^  in  which  the  dreams  are  but  dimly  shadowed.  The 
principal  temple  is  that  of  Night :  and  there  are  others,  dedicated  to 
Truth  and  Falsehood,  who  have  oracles.  The  population  consists  of 
Dreams,  who  are  of  an  infinite  variety  of  shape.     Some  are  small  and 

*  Perhaps  a  misprint  for 

A  court  of  coblers  and  a  mob  of  kings. 


12  THE  INDICATOR. 


1 


■slender ;  others  distorted,  humped,  and  monstroirs ;  others  very  proper 
and  tall,  with  blooming,  good-tempered  faces.  Others  again  havc^ter- 
rible  countenanceB,  are  winged,  and  seem  eternally  threatening  the 
city  with  some  calamity;  while  others  walk  about  in  the  pomp  and 
garniture  of  kings.  If  any  mortal  comes  into  the  place,  there  is  a 
multitude  of  domestic  Dreams,  who  meet  him  with  offers  of  service  ; 
and  who  are  followed  by  some  of  the  others,  that  bring  him  good  or 
bad  news,  generally  false  ;  for  the  inhabitants  of  that  city  are  for  the 
most  part  a  lying  and  crafty  generation,  speaking  one  thing,  and  think- 
ing another, — This  is  having  a  new  adrantage  over  us.  Only  think  of 
the  mental  reservation  of  a  Dream  ! 

If  Lucian  had  divided  his  city  info  ranks  and  denominations,  he 
might  possibly  have  classed  them  under  the  general  heads  of  Dreams 
liofty.  Dreams  Ludicrous,  Dreams  Pathetic,  Dreams  Horrible,  Dreams 
Bodily  Painful  or  Pleasant,  Dreams  of  Common  Life,  Dreams  of  New 
Aspects  of  Humanity,  Dreams  Mixed,  Fantastic,  and  utterly  Confused. 
He  speaks  of  winged  ones ;  which  is  judicious,  for  they  are  very  com- 
mon ;  but  unless  Natalis  Comes,  who  is  not  a  very  bright  person,  mis- 
represents him,  he  makes  them  of  the  melanc]u)li|f  fjlassj  which  in 
general  they  are  nof,  ,v-;t.4'.. 

In'tiii'y  sanguine  dreams  albft  we  boanJ. 

Nothing  is  more  common,  ,ar  usually  more  pleasant,  than  to  dream  of 
flying.  It  is  one  of  the  best  specimens  of  the  race  ;  for  besides- being 
agreeable,  it  is  made  «ip  of  the  rdreams  of  oydinary  life^  and  thpse  of 
surprising  combination.  Thus  the  dreamer  sometimes  thinks  he  is 
flying  in  unknown  regions^,  sometimes  skimming  only  a  f^w  inches 
above  the  ground,,  and  wondering  he  never  did  it  beforp.  He  will 
even  dream  thai  he  is  dreaming  about  it ;  and  yet  is  so  fuUy  po«wince^ 
of  its  feasibility,  and  so  astonished  at  his  never  having  hit  upon  so  der 
lightful  a  truism,  that  he  is  resolved  to  practise  it  the  moment  he  wak«g., 
''  One  has  only,"  says  he,  ''  just  to  give  a  little  spring  with  one's 
foot — so — and — oh  its  the  easiest  and  most  obvious  thing  in  the  world. 
I'll  always  skim  hereafter."  We  once  dreamt  that  a  woman  set  «p 
some  Flying  Rooms,  as  a  person  does  a  tavern.  We  went  to  try 
them  ;  and  nothing  could  be  more  satisfactory  and  common-place  on 
all  sides.  The  landlady  welcomed  us  with  a  courtesy,  hoped  for 
friends  and  favours,  &c.  and  then  shewed  us  into  a  spacious  room,  not 
round,  as  might  be  expected,  but  long,  and  after  the  usual  dining 
fashion.  ''  Perhaps,  Sir,"  said  she,  "  you  would  like  to  try  the  room  ;" 
upon,  which  we  made  no  more  ado,  but  sprung  up  and  made  two  or 
three  genteel  circuits,  now  taking  the  height  of  it  like  a  house-lark>, 
and  then  cutting  the  angles  like  a  swall<yw.  "iVery  pretty  flying 
indeed,"  said  we,  '' and  very  moderate.*"'      ;<(!•;",'' 

A  house  far  the  purpose  of  taking  flights  la,  -vf lien  the  open  air  was 
to  be  had  for  nothing,  is  fantastic  enough  ;  but  what  shall  we  say  t© 
those  confoundings  of  all  time,  place,  and  substance,  which  are  con- 
stantly happening  to  persons  of  any  crcativeness  of  diaphragm  ?  Thus 
you  shall  meet  a  friend  in  a  gateway,  who  besides  being  your  friend 


THE  INDICATOll.  'j|8 

shall  be  yoar  enotny  ;  and  besides  being  Jones  or  Tomkins,  slia'11  be  a 
bull ;  and  besides  asking  you  In,  shall  oppose  your  entrance.  Never- 
theless you  are  not  at  all  surprised;  or  if  surprised,  are  only  so  at 
something  not  at  all  surprising.  To  be  Tomkins  and  a  bull  at  once,  is 
the  most  ordinary  of  common-[)laces  ;  but  that,  being  a  bull,  he  should 
have  horus,  is  what  astonishes  you  ;  and  you  are  also  amazed  at  his 
not  being  in  Holborn  or  the  Strand,  where  he  never  lived.  To  be  ia 
two  places  at  once  is  not  uncommon  to, a  dreamer.  He  will  also  be 
young  and  old  at  the  same  time,  a  school-boy  and  a  roan  •,  will  live 
many  years  in  a  few  minutes,  like  the  Sultan  who.dipped  his  head  in 
the  tub  of  water;  wiU  be  full  of  zeal  and  dialogue  upon  some  matter 
of  indiiierence ;  go  to  the  opera  with  a  dish  under  his  arm,  to  be  in  the 
fashion  ;  talk  faster  in  verse  than  prose  ;  and  ask  a  set  of  horses  to  a 
musical  party,  telling  them  that  he  knows  they  will  be  pleased,  be- 
cause blue  is  the  general  wear,  and  Mozart  has  gone  down  to  Glouces- 
tershire to  fit  up  a  house  for  Epaminondas. 

It  is  a  curious  proof  of  the  concern  which  body  has  in  these  vaga- 
ries, that  when  you  dream  of  any  particular  limb  being  in  pain,  you. 
shall  often  have  gone  to  sleep  ia  a  posture  that  alFects  it.  A  weight  oa 
the  feet  will  produce  dreams  in  which  you  are  rooted  to  the  ground, 
or  caught  by  a  goblin  out  of  the  earth,  A  cramped  hand  or  leg  shall 
get  you  tortured  in  the  Inquisition  ;  and  a  head  too  much  thrown 
back,  give  you  the  sense  of  an  interminable  visitation  of  stifling.  The 
night-mare,  the  heaviest  punisher  of  repletion,  will  visit  some  persons, 
merely  for  lying  on  their  backs^;  which  shews  how  much  it  is  con- 
cerned in  a  particular  condition  of  the  frame.  Sometimes  it  lies  upon 
the  chest  like  a  vital  lump.  Sometimes  it  comes  in  the  guise  of  a  horrid 
dwarf,  or  malignant  little  hagj  who  grins  in  your  teeth  and  will  not  let 
you  rise.  Its  most  common  enormity  is  to  pin  you  to  the  ground  with 
excess  of  fear,  while  something  dreadful  is  coming  up,  a  goblin  or  a 
mad  bull.  Sometimes  the  horror  is  of  a  very  elaborate  description, 
such  as  being  spell-bound  ia  an  old  house,  which  has  a  mysterious  and 
shocking  possessor.  lie  is  a  gigantic  deformity,  and  will  pass  pre- 
sently through  the  room  in  which  you  are  sitting.  He  comes,  not  a 
giant,  but  a  dwarf,  of  the  most  strange  and  odious  description,  hairy, 
spider-like,  and  chuckling.  His  mere  passage  is  uubearable.  The 
agony  rises  at  every  step.  You  would  protest  against  so  malignant  a 
sublimation  of  the  shocking,  but  are  unable  to  move  or  speak.  At 
length,  you  give  loud  and  long-drawn  groans,  and  start  up  with  a 
praeternatural  effort,  awake. 

Mr.  Coleridge,  whose  sleeping  imagination  seems  proportioned  to 
his  w'aking,  has  described  a  fearful  dream  of  mental  and  bodily  tor- 
ture. As  the  beautiful  poems  of  Christabel,  &c.  which  accompany  if, 
seem  to  have  been  too  imaginative  to  be  understood  by  the  critics,  and 
coiisequently  have  wanted  the  general  attention  which  the  town  are 
pleased  to  give  or  otherwise  according  to  the  injunctions  of  those  gen- 
tlemen, we  shall  indulge  ourselves  in  extracting  the  whole  of  it.  it 
is  entitled  the  Pains  of  Sleep. 


14  THE  INDICATOR. 

El-e  f>n  my  beci  my  lin>l>9  I  lay, 

II  hatli  not  been  my  nse  to  pray 
"Will)  niovitij;  lips  or  bendetl  Icnees; 
liiit  silet>tiy,  by  slow  degrees, 
Myspirit  1  to  love  compose, 

f,-,  111  iuunble  trost  mine  eye-lids  close. 

Will)  revercDiial  resifiDHlion, 
No  \'risl)  conceived,  no  tlionght  expressed'! 
Oi)iy  a  *fnse  of  supplication,  '    ■  ■ 

A. sense  o'er  »ll  my  soul  imprest 
That  1  am  weak,  yet  not  unblest, 
Sinee  in  me,  roiind  me,  eyery  wl)ere 
Eternal  Strength  ar»d  WUdom  are. 

jRiit  yes^pr-nljilit  I  pray'd  nlpud 

III  auwiiisli  and  in  agony, 
Uli—thrtin^  from  the  fiendi«!)  fcrowd 

-  Of  shnpes  and  thonphts  ihnt  fortnred  me  : 

,. ,  ;  ,..  V  A  liirid  lifjhf,  a  trampling  thiong, 
.      ,,  f    ,       Sense  of  intolerable  wrong, 
OtlJ  l.f.^.     ^,nj  wljom  I  scorn'd,  llibse  oi>!y  strong  ! 
■  Thirst  of  revenge,  the  powerless  will 
Still  baffled,  niid  yet  burning  still  ! 
Desire  with  loojhing  strangely  mixed 
On  wild  or  haleful  objects  fixed. 
Fantastic  passions!  mad'ning  brawl  I 
And  shame  and  lirror  over  all ! 
,  Jieeds  to  be  hid  which  were  not  liidj 

Which  r\\  confused  I  could  not  know, 
Whether  1  suffered,  or  I  did  : 
For  all  seemt/d  guilt,  remorse  or  woe. 
My  ov\n  or  others  »till  the  same, 
Lite-stifling  fear,  soul-stifling  shame  '   ■ 

So  two  nights  passed  t  the  night's  dismay 
Sadden'd  and  stuivn'd  the  coming  d«y.  .    - 
Sleep,  the  wide  blessing,  seemed  to  me 
Distemper's  worst  calamity. 
Tl)e  third  night,  when  my  own  loud  scream 
lliid  waked  me  from  the  fiendish  dream, 
O'ercome  wjih  sufferings  strange  and  wild, 
1  \<  "pi  as  I  had  been  a  child  ; 
And  having  thus  by  tears  subdued 
IMy  unguish  to  a  milder  mood, 
Snch  punishments,  1  said,  were  <iue 
'J'o  natures  deepliest  staiM'd  with  (siar 
For  aye  entempesting  anew 
Th'  unfallipmable  hell  within 
■^'he  horror  of  their  deeds  to  view. 
To  know  and  loathe,  yet  wish  and  do  ! 
Such  griefs  with  such  men  well  agree, 
Jiut  wherefore,  wherefore  fall  on  rae  ? 
To  be  beloved  is  oil  I  need, 
And  whom  i  love,  I  love  indeed. 

:),  This  is  the  dream  of  a  poet,  and  does  not  end  with  the  question  of  a 
philosopher.  We  do  not  pretend  to  determine  why  we  should  have 
any  pains  at  all.  It  is  enough  for  us  in  our  attempt  to  dimioish  them, 
that, there  are  more  pltasant  than  painful  excitements  in  the  world, 
and  that  many  pains  are  the  causes  of  pleasure.     But  what  if  these 


THE  INDICATOR.  H 

palrts  are  for  the  same'  end?  What  if  all  this  heaping  and  war  of 
agonies  were  owing  to  the  author's  having  taken  too  little  exercise,  or 
eaten  a  heavier  supper  than  ord«iary  ?  But  then  the  proportion  ! 
What  proportion,  it  may  be  esked,  is  there  between  the  sin  of  neglected 
exercise  and  such  infernal  visitations  as  these  I  We  answer, — the 
proportion,  not  of  the  particular  offence,  but  of  (he  general  conse- 
quences. We  have  before  observed,  but  it  cannot  be  repeated  too 
often,  that  nature,  charitable  as  any  poet  or  philosopher  tan  be  upon 
the  subject  of  merit  and  demerit,  &c.  seems  to  insist,  beyond  any  thing 
else,  upon  our  taking  care  of  the  mould  in  which  she  has  cast  us  ;  or 
in  other  words,  of  that  ground-work  of  all  comfort,  that  box  which 
contains  the  jewel  of  existence,  our  health.  On  turning  to  the  pre- 
ceding poem  in  the  book,  entitled  Kubla.  Khan,  we  perceive  that  in  his 
introduction  to  that  pleasanter  vision,  the  author  speaks  of  the  present 
one  a«  the  dream  of  pain  and  disease.  Kobla  Khan,  which  was  medi- 
tated under  the  effects  of  oprum,  he  calls  '^  a  psychological  curiosity." 
It  is  so  ;  but  it  is  also  and  still  more  a  somatological  or  bodily  one  ; 
for  body  will  effect  these  things  upon  the  mind,  when  the  rniud  can 
do  no  such  thing  upon  itself;  and  therefore  the  shortest,  most  useful, 
and  most  philosophical  way  of  proceeding,  is  to  treat  the  phoenome- 
non  in  the  manner  most  serviceable  to  the  health  and  comfort  of 
both.  We  subjoin  the  conclusion  of  Kubla  Khan,  as  beginning  with 
an  exquisite  piece  of  music,  and  ending  with  a' tnost  poetical  phan- 
tasm :— 

A  damse!  with  a  dulcimer 

In  u  vision  once  (  saw  ; 
It  was  an  Abyss! ni'an  maid^ 
And  OH  lier  diflcimer  s\»e  plaj'ed, 

Singing  of  Mount  Aboru. 

Could  I  revive  within  me 

Her  symphony  and  song. 
To  such  a  deep  delight 'iwonid  win  me. 
That  with  music  lotid  and  long 
I  would  build  that  dome  in  air, 
TliHt  sunny  dome  !  those  caves  of  ice  : 
And  all  who  heard  should  see  tliem  there. 
And  ail  should  cry  Beware,  Beware, 
His  Hushing  eyes,  his  (Icattng  iiair ! 
AVeave  a  circle  round  liiin  thrice. 
And  close  your  eyes  with  holy  drelad; 
For  he  on  honey-dew  hath  fed. 
And  dranlc  of  the  oiilk  of  Paradise. 

If  horrible  and  fantastic  dreams  are  the  most  perplexing,  there  are 
pathetic  ones  perhaps  still  more  saddening.  A  friend  dreaming  of  the 
loss  of  his  friend,  or  a  lover  of  that  of  his  mistress,  or  a  kinsman  of 
that  of  a^ear  relation,  is  steeped  in  the  bitterness  of  death.  To  wake 
and  find  it  not  true, — what  a  delicious  sensation  is  that !  On  the  other 
hand,  to  dream  df  a  friend,  or  a  beloved  relative  restored  to  us, — to 
live  over  again  the  hours  of  childhood  at  the  knee  of  a  beloved  mother, 
to  be  on  the  eve  of  marrying  an  affectionate  mistress,  with  a  thousand 
other  joys  snatched  back  out  of  the  grave,  and  too  painful  to  dwell 


16  THE  INDIiCATOR. 

upon,-— what  adroary  rush  of  sensation  comes  like  a  shadow  upon  us 
when  we  wake.  How  true,  and  divested  of  all  that  is  call<'d  conceit 
ill  poetry,  is  that  tfrmiuutiou  of  Milton's  sonnet  oil  dreaming  of  his 

ilt'ce.ast;4,  vvife, —  . 

"'  •  '  "  '  But  O,  as  to  embrace  me  she  inclined, 

1  waked;  she  fled  ;  and  day  bfoirglH  back  my  nights*    f'-^-- 

We  wonder  that  so  good  and  cordial  a  critic  as  Warton  should  think. 
ihis  a  mere  conceit  on  his  blindness.  An  allusion  to  his  blindness , 
may  or  may  not  be  involved  in  it ;  but  the  sense  of  retu-ruing  shadow, 
on  the  mind,  is  quite  true  to  nature  on  such  occasions,  and  must  kavq 
teen  experienced  by  every  one  who  has  lost  a  person  dear  to  him, 
Thereis  a  be,autiful  sonnet  by  Caraoens  on  a  similar  occasion ;  a  smaU 
canzone  by  Sanazzaro,  which  ends  with  saying,  that  although  be  wak<*4 
and  missed  his  lady's  hand  in  his,  he  stili  tried  to  cheat  himself  by 
keeping  his  ^'yes  shut:  and  three  divine  dreams  of  Laura  by  Petrarohj 
goU)aet,34,  jVpl.  2..  Son.  79.  lb.  and  thecanzone.beginijh^,,  j  o-;  ^ 

(m;  .  hiiinj   ♦»••)   ii  Quando  il  soave  mio  Tido  conforto.  ■  '-    •' '.  ;^'"  Y^^^'  ' 

Bnt  "vve  must  he  qaatious  how  we  even  thi«k  of  iJie  poets. on  thi^ 
most  poetical  subject,  or  we  shall  write  three  articles  instead  of  one. 
As  it  is,  we  have  not  loft  ourselves  room  for  some  very  agreeable 
dreams,  which  we  meant  to  have  taken  between  these. oar  gallant  and 
imaginative  sheets.  They  must  be  interrupted,  as  they  are  too_apt  to 
be,  like  the  young  lady's  in  the  Adventures  of  a  I>ap  Dog,  who 
blushing  divinely,  had  just  uttered  the  words,  "My  Lord,  I  am 
wholly  your's,"  when  she  was  awaked  by  the  jumpiiig  up  of  that  of- 
ficious little  puppy.  '         ,        .  ;^.H  ai:s 


Printed  and  publislied  by  Joseph  AppLEY.inn,  No.'l^,"  Callierine-street,  Strand. 
Price  2d. — And  sold  also  by  A.  Gliddon,  Impbrler  of  Shofis,  No.  31,  Tnvistcck- 
slreet,  Covent-garden.  Orders  received  at  the  above  places,  -and  by  all  Book- 
sellers and  Newsmen.  < 


I 


■ti 


JlOTAMaYil  .THT 


THE    INDICATOR. 


Thire  he  arriving  round  about  doth  flie. 
And  takes  survey  with  busie  curious  eye : 
Now  this,  now  that,  he  tastetlj  tenderly. 

Spenser. 


No.  LV.— WEDNESDAY,  OCTOBER  25tb,  1820, 


\i    r:      -..111 


THE  MARRIAGE  OF  BELPHEGOR*. 

As  Pluto  was  taking  his  rounds  one  day  in  tiie  infernal  regions,  to 
see  that  alt  was  right  and  miserable,  he  thought  he  observed  a  parcel 
of  fellows,  in  a  particularly  hot  corner,  giggling  and  making  merry. 
Upon  looking  more  narrowly,  his  astonishment  was  confirmed  :  the 
rogues  had  discovered  his  presence,  and  changed  the  expression  of 
their  countenances  to  a  most  doleful  and  hypocritical  sorrow. 

Pliito  sent  for  his  chief  overseers.  *'  Gentlemen"  said  he,  **  here  is 
a  very  extraordinary  case,"  and  related  what  he  had  seen.  The  over- 
seers looked  at  each  other  in  confusion,  for  in  fact  they  had  noticed 
some  such  phenomenon  themselves,  but  had  scarcely  dared  to  think  of 
it.  They  did  not  know  what  comfort  might  happen,  if  enjoyment  was 
ro  be  found  even  in  Tartarus. 

As  the  case  however  was  not  to  be  compromised,  it  was  agreed, 
dfter  much  consultation,  to  examine  the  offenders  apart.  The  exami* 
nation  took  place  after  the  ordinary  forms  of  law  ;  but  nothing  ap« 
peared  to 'account  for  their  behaviour.  They  protiested,  upon  oath, 
that  they  had  no  secret  about  them  for  escaping  pain.  They  were  put 
to  various  torments  described  in  Dante,  and  gave  proofs  of  what  they 

*  This  is  "  tlie  renowned  tale  of  Belfagor,"  as  Mu  Dunlop  justly  calls  it.  It 
came  originally  from  a  Latin  Manuscript,  and  has  been  told  by  Giovanni  Brevio 
an  Italian  novelist,  by  the  famous  Machiaveili,  by  Straparoia,  La  Fontaine,  and 
the  old  English  dramatists.  It  is  repeated  here,  witli  the  usual  differences  prac- 
tised on  these  occasions.  We  thought  of  introducing  it  with  Ariosto's  preface  to  a 
superfluous  story  in  the  Orlando; 

Donne,  e  voi  che  le  donne  avete  in  pregio. 
Per  Dio,  non  date  a  questa  istoria  orecchia ; 

Ladies,  and  you  who  hold  the  ladies  dear. 
For  God's  sake,  take  no  notice  of  this  story : 

But  a  momenl's  reflection  told  us,  that  our  fair  reader^  need  not  be  hurt  with  a 
satire,  which  in  order  to  see  fair  play  between  the  two  sexes,  we  have  traced  to  its 
proper  causes  in  both.  We  expect,  on  tlie  contrary,  that  amiable  women  of  all 
classes,  and  really  good  wives  in  particular,  will  shew  a  just  partiality  for  it:  and 
ih  this  hope  we  bid  them  farewell  till  next  week,  when  we  mean  to  give  a  story 
unequivocitlly  to  their  honour. 

Vol.   II. 


18  THE  INDICATOR. 

said  :  only  the  familiars  observed,  that  in  the  midst  of  all  their  suffer- 
ings, there  certainly  was  an  irrepressible  something  about  the  mouth, 
which  looked  like  self-congratulation. 

A  chief  councillor  was  now  directed  to  compare  the  examinations, 
and  see  if  by  narrow  inspection  he  could  make  any  thing  out  of  them. 
He  did  so,  for  the  space  of  three  days  and  nights,  and  reported  that  he 
could  discover  nothing.  The  prisoners  had  offended  on  earth  like 
other  men, — loved  a  good  deal  too  much,  doubted  the  triple  nature  of 
Diana,  thought  hell  unfair,  &c.  &c. :  "  but"  said  the  lawyer,  "  I  can 
find  nothing  which  at  all  explains  the  enormity  in  question,  unless  it 
is  (and  here  he  put  on  the  facetious  smile,  usual  on  such  occasions) 
unless  it  is,  my  lords,  that  they  have  all  been  married." 

The  court  laughed  at  this  sally ;  but  one  of  Minos's  under-clerks 
begged  leave,  with  great  "deference  to  offer  himself  to  their  lordships* 
attention,  having  a  few  words  to  say  which  nothing  but  the  urgency 
of  the  question  copld  have  compelled  him  to  intrude  upon  their  con-* 
sideration.     He  said  that  the  learned  gentlemen  had  laughed,  and  that 
learne.q[  gentlemen  Tni5.ht  laugh;  but  that,  with  great  submission^  it 
■was  no  laughing  matter.     The  learned  gentleman  modestly  supposed 
that  he  had  uttered  nothing  but  a  common-place  joke  ;  and  he  would 
concede  (if  he  might  use  the  expression)  to  that  learned  gentleman's 
Eopdesty,   that  the  joke  was   common-place;  nay,  emphatically  so» 
IJut,  "  continued  he,  "  let  me  ask  your  lordships,  with  all  becoming 
hnamility,  how  such  a  very  ungallant  and  unconjugal  jest  came  to  be 
comrrion-place;  and  whether  in  the  discovery  of  that  secret,  we  might 
mot  discover  the  more  important  secret  now  before  us." 
,,, This  address  made  a  considerable  sensation.     The  counsel,  who  had 
inspected  the  examinations,  was  the  only  one  on  whom  it  seemed  to 
make  no  impression.    He  rejected  with  a  dignified  impatience  the  com- 
pliments paid  to  his  modesty,  and  yet  was  proceeding  to  throw  out 
5.QHie  other  sarcasms  in  a  style  equally  conscending,  when  Minos,  who 
had  fallen  into  a.  study,    said  he  had  a  proposition  to  make,  which 
would  settle  the  matter  beyond  all  doubt  or  equivocation.     It  was 
this,  that  some  ingenious  devil  should  be  selected  and  sent  on  earth,  with 
injunctions  to  enter  into  the  state  of  matrimony,  and  in  due  time  come 
back  and  report  the  consequences.    Rhadamanthus  suggested,  that  the 
task  should  be  assigned  to  one  of  the  criminals,  both  on  account  of  his 
previous  knowledge,  and  as  the  best  punishment  that  could  be  awarded' 
to  his  offence.     But  the  suggestion  was  over-ruled.     The  criminal,  it 
was  g.rgued,   however  loth  he  might  be  to  undergo  the  return  to  his 
Avife,  would  not  dare,  even  under  all  the  circumstances,  to  affect  a  dis- 
inclination, conscious  that  the  rest  of  the  offenders  would  insist  upon 
his  becoming  a  sacrifice  to  the  general  welfare,  and  that  he  had  the 
certainty  of  coming  back  to  his  old  quarters.     To  keep  such  offenders 
upon  earth  always  was  im[)ossible,  or  humanity  must  change  its  nature, 
^riid  l^lixio  woijlld  lose  subjects.     Besides,  marriage  might  be  altered, 
and  so  niake  a  heaven  upon  earth,  and  then  the  very  damned  would 
become  blest;  which  was  a  thing  too  profane  to  be  thought  of. 
,    Unfojtunately,  a  new  dilemma  now  occurred  ;  for  the  story  having 
got  about,  no  devil  was  fouud  hardy  enough  to  undertake  the  adven- 


'fHE  INMCATORi  1:0 

turp.  No,  no,  said  they ;  we  have  a  bad  life  enough  of  it  here ;  and 
it  has  long  been  a  good  diabolical  maxim,  to  let  ill  alone.  Promises  of 
as  many  enjoyments  as  possible  were  lavished  in  vain  ;  wine,  riches, 
rank,  beauty,  influence,  knowledge,  and  ices  every  day.  Some 
started  at  the  ices  ;  but  on  reflection,  they  agreed  with  the  rest,  The 
prisoners,  they  said,  had  had  experience  of  j^U  these,  and  yet  they  pre- 
ferred the  hell  under  the  earth  to  their  hell  upon  it.  As. a  last  tempta- 
tion they  were  promised  a  considerable  amendment  of.  their  condition 
upon  returning,  and  at  this  they  again  hesitated,  till  Pluto  unluckily 
offered  to  ratify  the  promise  by  his  royal  word  :  upon  which  they  im- 
mediately shook  their  heads,  and  declined  pursuing  the  question  any 
further.         ••-  •>'^.i;;  v-"^''";..    •  '  ■;•'''■•■'' -^^ 

At  length,  aVe'rydaring^^ambitious  devil,  of  the  name  of 'Belphegorj 
said  he  would  go.  The  whole  infernal  public  were  astonished ;  bat 
they  agreed  that  if  it  were  piossible  for  any  devil  to  do  such  a  thingj 
Bejphegor  was  he.  It  was  thought  that  he  had  a  private  commissiou 
from  Proserpine,  and  that  Pluto  was  not  sorry  to  wink  at  the  cause  of 
his  departure.  He  was  a  sprightly  devil,  who  could  play  on  the  seti 
pent,  and  wrote  verses  with  a  great  deal  of  fire:  accomplishments, 
which  got  him  occasional  admittance  to  Pluto's  table.  He  would 
make  experiments  upon  the  flames  about  hirp;  and  was  suspected  of 
holding  an  heretical  opinion  upon  the  possibility  of  getting  used  to 
any  thing. 

The  credit  of  his  orthodoxy  was  not  strengthened  by  his  actually 
setting  out.  Pluto  conferred  on  him  the  shape,  in  which  a  devil  of 
his  agreeable  turn  of  mind  would  have  appeared  had  he  been  a  man. 
It  was  something  betwixt  the  jovial  and  melancholy, — very  amiable. 
He  looked  like  one  of  the  most  agreeable  gentlemen  of  the  time. 
The  public  waited  with  some  impatience  for  his  appearance  out 
of  Proserpine's  apartments,  whither  he  had  gone  to  kiss  hands  on. 
leaving  Pandaemonium.  At  last  my  gentleman  comes  forth.  The 
spectators  set  up  a  shout,  like  that  of  a  myriad  of  coal-heavers. 
Belphegor  takes  off  his  hat,  with  an  air  as  if  he  had  been  used 
to  it  all  his  life ;  and  it  is  observed  universally,  that  if  Belphegor  is 
not  happy  in  wedlock,  there  must  be  something  worse  than  the  devil 
in  it. 

It  was  settled,  in  order  to  do  everything  fairly,  1st,  That  if  our  hero 
lit  upon  a  wife  more  than  usually  wifely,  she  should  die  with  reason- 
able celerity,  and  leave  him  another  chance  ;  2dly,  That  he  should  not 
return  to  hell  without  orders,  upon  pain  of  some  rare  punishment; 
and  3dly,  That  he  should  emerge  in  England,  as  the  place  where  mar- 
riage was  held  in  the  gravest  repute.  Accordingly,  he  made  his  ap* 
pearance  in  the  British  metropolis,  {js  a  young  gentleman  of  fortune; 
and  soon  found  that  an  alliance  with  him  would  be  regarded  iri  a  very 
estimable  point  of  view.  -       ■■■''•  ^ 

After  admiring  the  beauty  of  the  wOifienj''iwhich"  hiB  thought  never- 
theless a  little  too  cold-looking  (a  fancy  at  once  odd  and  pardonable 
in  a  devil),  the  thing  that  most  astonished  him  in  this  exempWy  arid 
very  married  nation,  was  to  find,  that  the  sarcasm  of  Pluto's  counsel  was 
as  common  here  as  elsewhere, — that  nothing  was  of  such  ordinary  oc- 


«0  THE  INMCATORi 

currence  as  the  ridicule  of  wedlock,  sometimes  bitter,  sometimes  merry^ 
often  between.both.  A  grave  and  seemingly  approving  eaif  was  lent  in 
public  when  it  was  praised  ;— a  panegyric  on  it  in  a  sentimental  co- 
medy met  with  applause ;  but  the  applause  was  double,  when  anothfr 
comedy  abused  it.  Husbands  and  wives  joked  each  other  u pod  their 
bonds,  with  the  air  of  people  who  break  the  force  of  a  satirical  truism 
by  meeting  it.  In  the  shops  were  pictures  of  Before  Marriage  and 
After  Marriage,  the  former  exhibiting  a  lover  helping  his  mistress  over 
a  style,  the  latter  the  same  gentleman  walking  on,  and  leaving  the  lady 
to  get  over  by  herself.  Belphegor  bverheard  a  knot  of  perspfis  one 
day  disputing  whether  this  was  a  caricature;  but  they  all  agreed  that 
the  spirit  of  it  was  like  enough.  "  Generally  like,"  said  one,  "  vhi, 
Jack  ?"  Jack  •  seemed  to  be  the  melancholy  wag  of  the  party,  'and 
eaid,  that  the  present  company  always  excepted,  he  though tyfiitr  a 
general  resemblance,  it  was  particularly  like. 

These  symptoms  were  not  at  all  encouraging  to,  our  hero ;  so  tlult 
having  been  told  to  do  what  others  did,  he  availed  himself  of  the  letter 
of  his  instructions  somewhat  beyond  the  spirit  of  their  intention,  and 
amused  himself  as  much  as  possible  in  the  character  of  a  bachelor.  He 
dressed,  dined,  lounged  in  the  coffee-houses,  went  to  the  theatres, 
visited  in  the  most  respectable  circles,  and  was  understood  to  be  Well 
acquainted  with  a  description  of  ladies,  whom  nevertheless  it  was.tiot 
proper  to  mention.  It  was  even  supposed  probable  that  he  had  fui?^ 
nished  his  quantum  of  maid-eervants  and  others  to  that  class  of  per- 
TSons,  and  scattered  a  considerable  portion  of  misery  about  town,  with- 
out at  all  diminishing  his  receptability  among  the  said  circles ;  a  phe- 
nomenon, which  in  so  grave  and  reputable  a  nation  he  would  bavte 
placed  to  the  account  of  an  error  of  charity,  had  he  not  obs0rv^d)  b3 
we  have  just  hinted,  that  if  the  most  serious  ladies  shewed  no  con- 
tempt for  himself,  they  evinced  a  good  deal  for  the  class  whom  hOiwas 
thought  likely  to  have  increased.  He  also  saw,  that  they  >Vould  ex*- 
pect  very  different  conduct  from  him,  should  one  of  them  honour  him 
with  her  hand;  and  that  if  he  might  like  the  worst,  and  deceive  the 
very  best  of  the  sex  now,  it  would  go  hard  with  him  should  he -then 
desire  t.p  eyjnce  a  grateful  sense  of  the  most  admirable  of  women. 

Captain  Lovell  however  (for  he  had  purchased  a  company  under 
this'  name)  had  received  a  due  portion  of  man's  ilature  with  his 
3hape;  and  he  was  induced  to  hasten  the  period  of  matrimony,  partly 
by  an  express  from  Pluto,  and  partly  by  his  falling  in  love  with  a 
young  lady  of  reasonable  beauty  and  accomplishments,  who  appeared 
to  him  as  likely  as  any  bpdy  "  to  render  the  married  state  happy,"— 
fL  phrase  indeed  which  was  often  in  the  mouths  of  her  parents. 

The  Captain  married ;  and  for  three  or  four  months  was  the  happiest 
^ev}l  e^dstjng.  £[e  met  with  occasional  instances  of  petulance  and  self- 
will  ;  but  these,  he  thought,  were  pardonable  jn  one.  who  made  him  so 
happy  in  the  main :  and  he  was  resolved  not  to  be  the  first  to  create  a 
rupture.  If  the  lady  could  not  bear  him  out  of  her  sight,  it  only 
proved  the  excess  of  her  fondness  ;  and  if  she  began  by  degrees  to  bear 
it  better,  he  was  convinced  that  she  did  it  solely  for  his  comfort,  by 
the  sweetness  with  which  she  received  the  new  dresses  and  tiiukets, he 
bestowed  upon  her  to  make  amends. 


THE  i  INDICATOR.  m 

r  lYitm  mnst-  know  that  Caj)taih  Lov(fU,  being  a  devil,  (aslKc'bdfies 
cJccasionally  startled  iiis  ear  by  callinor  him)  had  acquired  by  dint  of 
SufFei'ing  what  humanity  often  attains  to  by  the  same  means.  liHe 
hated  monopoly,  and  loved  to  see  fair  play  both  in  the  distribution  of 
pains  and  pleasures-.  The  first  thing  that  gave  him  a  seriously  uneas(r 
sensation  about  his  wife,  was  to  see  so  gentle  a  creature  capable  of 
scolding  her  servants.  He  remonstrated,  and  was  scolded  himself. 
3.'he  next  night  he  stayed  out  longer  then  usual,  and  was  welcomed 
home  with  a  long  Jecture  which  perfectly  stunned  him.  The  words 
he  could  chiefly  distinguish,  all  but  one,  were,  creatures~honestwife*4f 
is  this  usage? — tender  heart— plagues  of  servants— other  women  (vvith 
great  stress  on  other) — my  husband  (with  still  greater  stress  on  Iny)-^ 
duty — decency— lawful — usual  fate — defy  any  body— religion-rl-ahd 
chastity.  The  .one  word  in  particular  was  virtue  ;  which  sheused  ia. 
common  for  the  last  mentioned  quality.  He  afterwards  found  that 
whenever  she  charged  him  with  any  vice,  or  was  guilty  of  any  herself, 
she  had  a  special  taste  for  repeating  the  same  synonym.  If  he 
looked  with  fondness  on  any  lady  with  a  frank,  good  humoured  face, 
his  wife  was  sure  to  doubt  the  lady's  "  virtue,"  and  to  remind  him  df 
her  own.  If  she  exhibited  any  petty  selfishness  in  eating  and  drinking, 
or  laying  out  money,  or  exacting  too  much  of  others,  and  suspected 
that  he  observed  it,  she  sighed  at  the  fate  which  denied  the  le9.st  pri- 
"vilege  or  consolation  to  "  virtue."  If  she  was  a  little  insincere  with 
him,  or  pettish  with  others,  and  he  reproved  her  for  it  (for  he  began 
now  to  reprove,  on  his  own  side),  she  delighted  to  tell  him,  with  a 
j-ery  malignant  aspect,  that  such  petty  fault  would  not  be  found  wit^ 
any  body  but  a  person  of  "  virtue."  If  she  was  in  the  mood  to  be  fond 
with  him,  and  he  had  not  quite  got  over  her  last  peroration,'  she  wept 
and  said  that  love  was  no  longer  considered  a  duty  ;  no  longer  a  holy 
lie  ;  no  longer  the  reward  of  ''  virtue."  He  was  one  day  so  provoked 
by  her  harping  upon  this  favourite  word,  that  he  turned  on  his  heel, 
and  exclaimed,  with  great  gusto  of  utterance,  "  Di^mn  virtue  !''  The 
lady  sat  tlown,  pale,  smiling,  and  satisfied.  ''  Well  1"  she  exelaimed  j 
"  if^' — The  Captain  did  not  stay  to  hear. the  rest,;  He- knew  \yh*t  that 
Well  portended,  too  M'^11.  •.;,-,.•■     •,■..;,:,!:/ 

^,  Captain  LoveJl  fell  into  conversation  with  his  brother  piHcers  on 
the  subject  of  this  virtue.  He  had  laid  as  much  stress  on  it  as  any 
man,  particularly  as  he  ^had  led  a  very  gay  life,  '^.sid.  thought  it  vejy 
difficult  to  keep.  Buthe  now  began  to  suspect,  that  the  dilViculty  was 
iHc^  such  great  matter,  if  ladies  made  up  for  it  with  all  these  privileged 
vices; — that  if  it  were,  it  put  on  a  very  unpleasant  aspect,  so 
managed; — and  that  at  all  events,  the  system  deserved  inquiry,  which 
made  so  many  virtuoqs  men  and  women  disagreeabh^ . as  well  as  re^ 
spectable,  so  many  vicious  women  pleasant  and  despised,  and  such 
jiumbers  of  both  descriptions, extremely  miserable.  He  started  the 
iq;uestion  at  the  mess,  but  the  oflicers,  though  incorrigible  profligates, 
•were  equally  inexorable  in  their  theories  of  virtue.  If  their  w:ives  and 
mistresses  they  said,  were  not  faithful,  they  could  shoot  them  through 
the  head.  "  But,"  said  Lovell,  "  suppose  they  become  disagreeabie/,' 
^"  Ohj  damn  it,"   said  tiie  Cob^uel,  "  there  are  plenty  of  agreeabip 


QB  THK  INDICATOR. 

MTomen,  for  that  matter;"  upon  which  they  all  laughed,  and  toasted  a 
favourite  demirep.  "  But,"  returned  Lovell,  "  is  that  fair  in  us  ?  J» 
•it  fair4n  us  to  make  our  wives  disagreeable  with  our  theories,  to  insist 
that  they  shall  remain  so  for  our  credit  forsooth,  and  then  to  leave 
them  for  those  whom  we  teach  them  to  despise  ?"— ^The  mess  all  stared 
at  him,  as  widely  as  the  port  in  their  eyes  would  permit. — <'  Oh,  pray 
go  home,  and  instruct  your's,  Tom,"  said  the  Colonel:  "you  are 
much  too  profligate  for  us. — My  compliments,  however.  And  I  say"— 
(hallooing  after  him)  "  remember, — in  the  event  of  a  reformation,— 
I'm  your  man."  i 

Lovell  went  home,  much  more  ruflied  than  be-came  a  dxmon  of  his 
▼ivacity ;  but  his  earthy  nature  clogged  him,  and  he  began  to  wish  him- 
self heartily  rid  of  It.  He  sat  down  opposite  his  wife,  and  thoqgh  he 
had  a  grudge  against  Milton  for  what  he  called'  hi&  trucklings  about 
Fandaemonium,  could  not  help  repeating  after  him, 

Osliame  to  men!  DaviJ  villi  devil  d^tnned 
Fiim  con^:oid  hold,,men  qnly  disagree. 

The  lady  did  not  at  all  relish  this  apostrophe;  but  she  had  been  unex- 
pectedly softened  by  his  coming  home  so  soon  ;  and  asking  him  to  read 
a  little  to  her  out  of  that  "  truly  divine  poet,"  she  went  to  the  book- 
case and  took  down  a  volume  of  him,  intending  (we  must  own)  that 
he  should  shame  himself  with  reading  the  conjugal  loves  of  Adam  and 
Eve.  Unluckily,  she  happened  to  hit  upon  one  of  his  prose  instead  of 
poetical  works;  and  wbat  w&^  more  unlucky,  the  Captain,  opening  it 
at  random,  hit  upon  a  passage  4n  his  Doctrine  and  Discipline  of  Di- 
vore,  where  in  spite  of  his  divintty,  he  says  that  personal  infidelity  ia 
a  woman  is  not  so  good  a  ground  for  separation  as  ill  temper  and  other 
vices  of  antipathy,  because  she  may  still  remain  a  very  pleasing  and 
even  affectionate  woman  in  the  main,  whereas  the  other  vices  totally 
cut  up  the  happiness  of  a  wedded  life.— After  sitting  dumb  with  astoi 
iiishment  at  hearing  such  a  quotation  from  Milton  (which  the  Captain 
maliciously  shewed  her,  to  convince  her  eyes)  the  lady  ended  a  long 
and  vehement  dispute  by  charging  him  with  wishing  to  corrupt  her 
virtue,  in  order  to  furnish  excuses  for  himself.  There  had  been  little 
peace  before.  There  was  now  an  uninterrupted  cannonade  of  hard 
words.  The  gentleman  was  ''  the  most  wonderful,  the  most  amazing, 
the  very  meanest  of  mankind  for  deliberately  wishing  to  pander  to  his 
own  dishonour :— she  was  astonished  at  him — she  was  overwhelmed; 
she— in  short,  for  the  first  time  in  her  life,  she  wanted  words."  '*•  On 
the  other  hand,  the  lady  was  "  the  most  provoking  of  women  for  eter- 
nally beginning  the  question,  to  indulge  her  own  silly  mistakes,  cursed 
ill  humours,  spleen,  vanity,  t<nvy,  hatred,  and  malice,  and  all  uncha- 
ritableness." 

The  Captain  not  having  been  usrd  to  this  sort  of  torture  in  the  other 
world,  had  much  the  worst  of  it.  HiS  wife  could  talk,  though  she  said 
nothing.  She  also  piqued- lierself  more  than  ever  upon  her  "  virtue," 
"whereas  he  had  nothing  to  boast  ori  that  score.  By  degrees,  he 
neglected  his  affairs,  and  grew  melancholy  and  slovenly.  His  credi- 
tors came  upon  him ;  but  the  lady  w  ould  not  go  out  of  the  house, 


THE  INDICATOR.  SS 

b^caase  she  said  he  did  it  on  purpose  to  get  rid  of  her.  At  length  he 
sold  his  commission,  and  absconded. 

Our  hero  looked  hard  at  every  person  he  met  in  black,  hoping  that 
he  brought  him  the  summons  to  return  to  hell ;  but  he  was  disap- 
pointed. He  was  therefore  obliged  to  content  himself  with  hiding 
from  his  creditors ;  for  though  he  had  lived  so  long  in  the  infernal 
regions,  he  could  not  bear  the  idea  of  bailiffs  and  lock-up  houses.  One 
day,  being  hot  pressed  with  the  pursuit,  he  made  known  the  earthly 
part  of  his  history  to  a  countryman.  The  peasant,  in  spite  of  his  deaf 
wife's  objections,  who  saw  she  knew  but  half  the  secret,  concealed 
him  faithfully  ;  and  the  Captain  in  return,  undertook  to  make  his  for- 
tune. The  rustic  laughed  at  this.  "  Nay,  nay.  Muster  Lovell,''  said  he, 
*' there's  no  making  a  zilk  purse  of  zow's  ear.  I  judge  I  beez  better  able 
to  make  fortunes  nor  you ;  and  God  he  knoM'S,  I'm  as  poor  as  Job  ;  and 
for  that  matter,"  added  he,  winking  towards  his  wife,  "as  patient 
too;  eh,  Captain?"  Belphegor  (for  so  we  shall  again  call  him)  did 
not  much  relish  this  sally,  for  obvious  reasons ;  not  to  mention  that  his 
natural  pride,  as  a  devil,  began  to  return  upon  him  fronfi  a  comparisoa 
with  mortals.  However  he  adhered  to  his  promise.  He  therefore 
disclosed  his  real  quality  to  the  terrified  countryman,  whom  he  had 
much  ado  to  encourage.  A  good  deal  of  ale,  and  some  toasts  given  to 
the  church, (which  made  the  man  think  him  too  good  natured  a  devil, 
considering  the  tithes)  succeeded  in  re-assuring  him.  Our  hero  under- 
took to  go  to  the  continent,  and  possess  a  German  prince,  whom  the 
farmer  was  to  follow  and  cure.  The  latter  gave  out,  that  in  conse- 
quence of  some  experiments  with  dogs,  he  had  found  a  marvellous  re- 
medy for  disorders  connected  with  phrensy;  and  as  a  previous  step, 
Belphegor  pitched  himself  into  a  censorious  old  lady  in  the  village,  who 
began  talking  of  the  farmer  with  such  extraordinary  fondness,  that  it 
was  thought  better  to  send  for  him  in  his  new  capacity.  He  came  ac- 
cordingly^and  wrought  a  cure  which  was  reckoned  the  more  surprising, 
inasmuch  as  the  old  lady,  from  that  day  forward,  became  extremely 
charitable  in  her  discourse.  On  the  day  of  the  cure,  15elpheger  crossed 
sea,  and  pitched  himself  into  the  German  prince.  His  Majesty  was  taken 
■with  a  very  odd  fancy.  He  wasa  huge,  fat  man,  very  profligate  ;  and  yet 
fell  into  long  discourses  on  his  exceeding  thinness  and  integrity.  No- 
thing relieved  him  so  much  as  making  him  presents  of  shoes  and  gloves 
too  small  for  him,  measuring  waists  to  see  which  was  the  larger,  and 
making  bold  to  say,  that,  if  any  thing,  he  was  somewhat  too  slender  and 
amiable  for  a  man.  He  had  already  been  seized  with  a  notion,  that  his 
wife  (a  sort  of  harum-scarum,  but  excellent-hearted  person)  was  not  as 
genteel  and  virtuous  as  himself;  and  for  this  Belphegor  had  a  pique 
against  him,  both  on  account  of  the  mistake,  and  of  the  man's  making 
it  so  ridiculous.  He  accordingly  entered  him  in  all  his  triumph,  and 
rendered  his  behaviour  so  exceedingly  fantastic  and  absurd,  that  his 
very  courtiers  were  ready  to  die  with  laughter. 

The  rustic  doctor,  as  he  anticipated,  was  sent  for.  His  fame  had 
spread  rapidly  by  moans  of  the  newspapers;  and  his  second  cure, 
being  upon  a  prince's  understanding,  of  course  outdid  in  repulatioii 
his  first.     His   method   electrified  the   physicians.     He   merely    ap- 


21;  llIEINDIGATCIRl 

pvbached' tUe  raya!l'«af;  whispered ,  swmpthiBg  in  it'Whicfi  nobody* 
heard  ;  and  the  evil  spirit  departed.  'His  words  were  these: — "  Cap^ 
tftiri,  lam  coin'e:'retbember  yoar  promise."*— "  I  do,"  answered  the 
spirit ;  "  and  to  make  you  still  richer,  I  shall  go  and  possess  the  Czai^ 
of  Muscovy,  who  undertakes  to'be  a  moral  fop,  and  is  my  aversion."! 
*' Good,"  said  the  peasant,  who  was  growing  rich  with  prosperity;^ 
*'  but  have  a  care,  my  dear  Captain,  that  you  don't  tell'un  any  o'  your: 
theories,  as  you  calls 'em,  or  you'll  never  get  at 'un."  '   •       ' 

Now  the  readej"  must  know,  that  our  hero,  besides  the  pridfti  above-1 
mentioned,  had  a  vice  In  him  more  befitting  hi  practice  if  not  In  theory^ 
a  good  orthodox  Christian  ;  which  was  revenge.  Besides,  his  teihpcnK 
bad  been' embittered  by  his  earthly  sojourn.  He  therefore' toodtfi^ 
scended  to  be  piqued  with  the  farmer's  airs  of  superiority ;  he  WaV 
also  aniioyed  by  the  sight  of  a  happiness  which  he  could  not  taste  ;  and- 
he  .determinled  upon  ruining  the  pioor  dolt.  The  C«:arof  MusiJovy. 
doated  at  such  an  extravagant  rate,  that  the  famous  English  doctor"\*tti^ 
sent  for  with  all  speedi  :  He  came,  dressed  in  the  extremity  of  the  ine-J 
dical  fashiouj  humming  and  hawing  with  great  pompoSityv  B^lphegor* 
ehuckled  at  the  sight.  The  farmier  whispered  as  usual ;  but  what  waar 
his  astonishment,  when  the  Czar  read  him  a  grave  lectute  on  his  pre-" 
sumption  ?  He  entreated  his  dear  Captain,  his  excellent  Mr.  Ijovell,' 
his  kbid  good  master,  &c.  &c.  all  to  no  purpose.  l5elphegor-wouUI 
Hot  move,  and  the  Czar  went  on,  making  both  himself  and  the  mock<^ 
doctor  ridiculous.  The  poor  peasant,  whom  despair  rendered  iv^t^ 
»ious,  remembered  hearing  from  the  village  pulpit,  that  the  devilco»ld 
»ot  abide  the  presence  of  a  clergyman.  He  requested  that  four  priestgi 
might  be  sent  for.  They  were,  and  mass  performed  to  bootj  aft€r  the 
feshion  of  the  Greek  church ;  but  Belphegor  was  inexorable.  He  even 
made  the  Czai^  fall  a  laughing,  to  bis  Majesty's  own  exceeding 
horror.  This  farmer  was  now  giving  himself  up  for  lost,  when  a  buf* 
foon  came  bursting  through  the  crowd,  mimicking  the  poor  doctor's 
manner  so  irresistibly,  that  the  assembled  thousands  could  not  refrain 
from  bursting  into  shouts  of  laughter  and  approbation.  "  What  the 
devil's  that  ?"  said  Belphegor.  "  Oh  my  dear  Captain,"  answered 
the  peasant,  ''  there  is  your  wife  coming  in  search  of  you." — At  these 
■words,  Belphegor,  without  waiting  even  to  kick  the  Czar  and  the  Doc- 
tor, leaped  out  of  the  royal  person,  and  in  the  teeth  of  his  instrucliotis- 
io  the  contrary,  made  the  best  of  his  way  to  hell.  ^t 

..f 


''A 


Printed  and  piiblishecl  by  J.oskph  Appletard,  No.  19,  Cailierine-street,  Strand. 

•  Price  2d.— And  sold  nlso  by  A.  Gljpdon,  Importer  of  Snuff;',  No.  31,  TavUrprk- 
street,  Covent-gardeii.     Orders  received  at  the  above  places,  and  by  all  Book- 

•  sellers  and  Newsmen. 


THE    INDIGATOR. 


Tliereiie'  irrfvJnfrtrtini  Ahoai  dottr  llj^. 
And  take$  survey  with  busie  curious  eye : 
Now  tliiSf  now  that,  he  tasteth  tenderly. 

Spenser. 


No.  LVII—WEDNESDAY,  NOVEMBER  1st,  18$0. 


THE  GENEROUS  WOMEN.* 

A  GENTLEMAN  of  Touts,  of  the  nattTie  of  De  Lorme,  had  a  wife  wliotn 
he  had  courted  with  extreme  ardour,  and  whom  he  still  loTed  as  hi* 
chosen  companion.  She  had  perceived  however,  for  some  time  pasty 
that  his  gallantry  towards  her  was  more  constrained  than  rt  used  to 
be;  and  this  surprised  the  lady.  In  truth,  it  might  well  do  so;  for 
she  was  still  young  and  handsome,  her  accomplishments  were  many  ; 
and  if  any  thing,  the  love  on  her  own  side  was  greater  than  ever. 

It  must  be  confessed  at  the  same  time,  that  she  had  not  been  aware 
af  this  last  circumstance,  till  her  husband's  love  had  appeared  to  de- 
cliBe :  it  must  be  added,  that  she  had  for  some  time  been  accustomed 
to  regard  his  tenderness  as  a  matter  of  course ;  and  it  must  be  further 
acknowledged)  that  M.  De  Lorme  had  given  grounds  for  this  persua- 
sioBi,  both  in  the  excess  of  his  first  ardour,  and  in  his  happy  and  deli- 
cate imitation  of  it  when  it  began  to  cool.  Our  heroine  in  short,  for- 
got that  there  was  such  a  thing  as  ifaagination  in  love,  of  the  necessity 
of  being  raerit-orious  in  the  person  beloved. 

Still  Madame  De  Lorme  was  far  from  being  destitute  of  merit;  She 
had  even  mojre  virtue  then  she  was  aware  of,  but  too  secure  in  the  con- 
ventional forms  of  it  and  in  her  own  good  opinion,  her  husband's 
altered  behaviour  began  to  turn  her  surprise  into  resentment.  She  in** 
sinuated  his  fickleness ;  and  nobody  likes  insinuations.  What  is  more, 
he  did  not  deserve  them.  She  took  to  being  prouder,  when  she  was 
tOO'  proud  already.  '  She  wept  dt  intervals,  with  the  air  of  an  ill-used 
person ;  aind  this  contrasted  but  ill  with  the  pride.  At  last,  she  men» 
tioned  her  "  virtue ;"  and  this,  as  our  readers  know,  is  the  deviL 

*  The  ground-work  of  the  following  story  is  from  the  eld  Fi'ench  artd  Italiaik 
ppvelists,  and  has  been  turned  to  gdod  aecount  in  his  Albion's  England  by 
Xyillianri  Warner,  .the  old  poet  mentioned  several  times  in  our  first  volume.  No* 
titihg  can.  exceed  rile  general  cast  of  nature  in  his  liotnely  account.  Doe  of  hit 
tomhes  of  paiutinig  is  exCreiiieiy  heaiitiful  : — 
He  took  her  in  his  arms,  as  yet 

So  coyish  to  be  kist,- 
As  maid's  that  know  ihemselvesl  belpv^. 
And  yieldingly  resist,      .  ju)  <,«jjii 
Vol.  IL 


26  THE  INDICATOR. 

M.  De  Lorme  had  informed  his  wife  that  she  might  hot  be,  perhaps, 
quite  so  perfect  or  amiable  as  she  supposed ;  but  this  she  regarded  as 
a  resentful  speech,  aad  her  o\vn  resentnient  was  heightened  accordingly. 
She  looked  a1b{>ui  ^er^  t0  cQii^i^ert^h%t  cQuld  ,havQ  induced  him  to 
spend  less  time  with  her,  or  to  enjoy  less  the  time  that  he  did  spend. 
He  did  not  game:  he  di4  nqt  dfint:  he  was  nqt  fond  of  hunting: 
there  was  no  lady  with  whom  she  could,  compare  herself:  and  yet, 
from  some  instinct  or  other,  she  thought  it  must  be  a  lady  who  had. 
beguiled  him:  not' so  handsome  or  virtuous,  she  thought,  as  myself; 
but  neither  virtue,  nor  even  beauty,  can  fix  the  men  in  these  degenerate 
days.  If  Madame  De  LoTme  ha'd  called"  "her  own  virtue  in  question, 
she  midit  ^v^  beeiUJMjafCT^^e^markjf  ^jift  she  th^  one's 

faults  instead'^of  her  own. 

These  jealous  enquiries' he! peicT  fcTprbduce  the  catastrophe  she 
dreaded.  M.  De  Lorme,  though  full  of  natural  sentiment,  was  not 
aware  that  the  customs,  c^nd  exactjons  of  his  own  sex  had  helped  to 
spoil  both  women  and  men  ;  and  tired  with  canvassing  a  subject  which 
b&almost  ■knew'a,s  ill  hdw  to  handle  as  his  ladyy  he  -was  left  open  to 
the  first  impressions  he  should  receive  from  a  handsome  and  good  tem- 
pered female.  At  th3:t  time,  Henry  the  4th  was  upon  the  throne. 
The  example  of  the  monarch  had  .not  tended  to  make,  the  gallantry  of 
hisloving  subjects  more' scrupulous.  .His  virtues,  at  the  same  time, 
helped  to  divest  it  of  hypocrisy,  without  letting  ifc  run  into  impudence. 
At  least,  this  was  the  effect  at  a  distance  from  him,  where  his  example; 
felltipon  a^^oil  worthy  of  him »  What- it  was  in  the  old  and  corrupt 
horb-bedofi'the  tourt,  it  is  not. our  busiiie'ss  to  enquire.  Th«  country^ 
lasses  were  certainly  tery  amia/ble. at  that  period ;  and  M.  De  Lorme 
found  thein  so;.  i';^^  ":''•:,•*«.,.   ;  '  ,  ■'..  ..:. 

- s;  There  was  a  lively  good-hurhourecl  girl  oil  a  farm  which  he  had  about 
eight  in  ilea  from  Tours,  whose  reputation  was  none  of  the  austerest^ 
fetit''who.was  so.  kind  to' the- old^  and  so  choice  of  her  kisses  to  the 
yoiing,  that  she  enchanted  t"he  whole  neighbourhood.  She  supported 
an  old  aunt  and  uncle  with  her  industry  ;  would  help  any  body,  when 
she:  hajd'.done  her  work,  in  fiddor  dairy;  and  then  led  off  the  evening 
dance  under  the  elms  \Vi.th  a  mixture  of  grace  and  good  nature,  which 
HQb.ody  would  have  dared  to  treat  with  disrespect,  had  he  been  in- 
^ihcdi'    Yourmight  hear  her,  early- iri  the  morning,  singing 

.^fCi;;.!!  ;■".■■.;,'(,    .■■'  ;;^i,.;  •  .  i- .;:  •,,         ■  .     ■.,■''  .......     ..-  . 

r  •  MiffTiDnirejalloiis  voir  SI  la  rose,         .       .^,  ,i    ,  ,.,  i.  u 

i'.B'^  iHli  V.\).:H    ,•)■.•■■"',■,     ■   ..::\        .      .  .  .'  .;t>/T.R->U    3v)i!   ..'<*)• 

fccith  ffesprrtts  and  sweetness  of  a. lark.  She  made-  it  a  sbyt*  of  chival- 
rnas.tWBgto  obtain. a  kiss  of  her;  always  gave  the  best  to  theldndest 
and  incst  courageous  ;  was. strangely  coy  to  the  lacqueys  and  otheV 
wise  men  of  the  world,  who  sometimes  instructed  the  neighbourhood; 
fedbiald  that  if  Monsieur  the  Poet,  Rohsard,  ever  came  into  those 
i^i|(^,'she'vfa^  afraid  shfe  should  kiss  him  before  he  thought  of  it.  In 
jgliortyFajichp^  had  a  Ijorn  genius  for  the  amiable  ;  and  by  proper  coin 
tivation  among  the  wits  of  those  times,  would  have  become  a  wit  her- 
self, and  much  less  agreeable.   '  .  ." 

M.  De  Lorme  visited. his  farm. one  day  after  a  long  abpence,  and  was 
riding  very  thoughtfuUj^  into  tfie  hanjlet,  when  ke  saw  one  of  the  pret- 


TSE  INDICATOR.  27 

iiesf  figut-es  ici  the^  "world  before  him,'' -walking'  Ihe  saiAe'  way  \<»Uh  a 
milk-jug  on  its  head,  and  singing  under  the  lime-trees.  His  hbrse 
happened  to  give  a  snort ;  and  Fanehon  turning  round  (for  it  was  she) 
dropped  a  curtsey,  and  then  continued  her  way  silently.  "  She  looks 
too  much  in  earnest,"  thought  M.  De  Lorme,  "  to  have  «ee«  me 
before  she  stopped  singing,— You  seem  very  happy,  child,"  said  he 
aloud,  looking  at  her  as  he  rode  by  her  side.  *'  Oh  yes,  Sir,"  said  the 
girl,  with  an  impulse  she  seemed  to  repress.  She  then  dropped  a  more 
respectful  curtesy,  and  began  to  loiter  behind  him.  He  loitered  in  his 
turn.  ''  Are  you  all  so  happy,  my  dear  f"  asked  the  gentleman,  who 
would  have  «aid  a  prettier  thing,  had  her  countenance  struck  him  less. 
*'  Yes,  Sir,"  iveplied  she, — "  I  think.  «o — most  of  us."  "  And  what  is 
it,  pray,  that  makes  most  of  us  so  happy?"  rejoined  ,the  horseman, 
repeating  her  words,  for  the  sake  of  the  air  of  sincerity  with  which  she 
spoke  thenu  ^'  I  beg  your  pardon,  Sir,"  answered  the  fair  peasant^ 
*'  but  I  am  sure  you  must  know."  She  $aid  this  with  much  more  gra- 
vity than  archness;  yet  M.  De  Lorme  somehow  or  other  coloured. 
*'  1  beg  your  pardon,  Sir,"  she  repeated,  apparently  discovering  that 
she  ought  to  say  more  ;  "  but  I  recollect  Monsieur's  face,  and  my 
aunt  Says  he  makes  every  body  happy  as  well  as  his  tenants."— rNot 
exactly  every  body,  thought  M.  De  Lorme,  nor  myself  neither.  Biit 
the  answer  enlivened  him.  "  If  1  make  every  body  so  happy,  my  fair, 
one,"  said  he,  "  I  think  it  is  their  business  to  make  me  so,  is  it  not  ??' 
Fanehon  perceived  that  he  was  talking  gallantly  :  she  :had  also  Jieard 
that  he  was  not  so  happy  at  home  as  he  used  to  be ;  a;nd  what  with  her 
superiority  to  =the  common  gallantry  which  there  might  be  ia  this 
speech,  her  sympathy  nevertheless  with  the  sentiment  of  it,  and  her 
cordial  respect  for  the  Seigneur,  she  was  confused  in  her  turn.  She 
said  "  Yes  truly,  Sir,"  with  a  gravity  which  made  him  smile.  ''- 1  tvill 
not  distress  you,  my  love,"  said  M.  De  Lorme,  '*  but  you  haye  a  fine 
face  of  your  own,  and  I  would  beg  one  kiss,  ©f  it,  if  it  would  notialter 
it*"  At  these  w'ords,  he  .leaned  fron^his  horse  5  Fanehon  let  her  face 
move  towards  him  with  the  sweetest  and  gravest  w.ant  @;f  prudery  in 
the  world;  she  gave  hiin  even  he*  lipg^.4n§tead  of  hericlieek;  and  a 
better-hearted  kiss  on  both  sides  had  rtot  been  taken  under  a  milk-jug, 
with  the  lime-trees  over  it,  for  many  a.  day*  ,  ■ 

As  soon  as  our  gentleman  got  to  his  farm,  he  tnade  enquiries  respect- 
ing the  fair  peasant,  "Oh  Sir,":  said  the  steward,  smiling,  ";  that  is 
Mademoiselle  Fanehon.  She  must  be  courted,  I  can  telly ouj  as  much 
as  if  she  w«re  a  fine  lady."  M.  De  Lorme,  acicastomed  to  the  more 
sophisticated  Jeves  sof  Paris,  was  astonished  jto  find,  in  ,the  person  of  a 
country  girl,  such  union,  as  he  called  it,  of  the,  modest  andthe  liberals 
Modesty,  where  it  .was  to  be  found,  was  generally  in  the  possession  of 
wives,  and  by  no  means  liberal  in  any  thing.  Liberality,  on  the  other 
hand,  was  )€tclasi;fely  ia  the  possessioa  of  the  mistresses,  and  by  no 
means  modest,  ,  .  ,  ^,,v  -..ii  V.  1  ,      j  ,  ..,;  •■    •      ^   ;r    .  m  .  '-  .■     .•     ■ 

M.  De  Ijorme  w^as  told,  apnong'^  other  anecdotes  of  Fanehon,  that; 
she  was  a  great  ballad-singer  and  early  riser.  The  next  morning,  he 
found  himself  up  very  early,  singing  as  he  arranged >the  featherpn  his 
hat.   He  talked  down  the  green  lane,  in  love  with  every  thing  he  saw ; 


«8'  THE  INDICATOR. 

and  came  io  the  residence  of  Fandhon's  uncle  and  annt.  It  was  one 
of  the  thickest  and  most  sylvan  nests  on  the  banks  of  the  Loire.  One 
■window  alone  was  seen  looking  out  of  the  trees.  The  rest  of  the  cot- 
tage Seemed  almost  built  up  with  green.  The  birds  in  the  boughs  over 
head  made  a  morning  concert  of  the  fullest  and  most  sparkling  descrip- 
tion, but  M.  De  Lorme  did  not  hear  Eanchon.  "  She  is  not  up,"  said 
he  to  himself  :**  the  jade  is  so  pleasant,  she  gets  a  character  given  her 
for  any  thing.  Perhaps  some  dream  has  detained  her  r^— if  it  were 
only  how  about  a  welUIooking  gentleman  on  horseback" — ■—'  M.  .De 
L6rme,  as  he  thought  this,  had  got  into  the  inner  part  of  the  little 
homestead;  and  there  he  saw  Fanchon,  not  singmg,  not  doing  any 
thing,  but  standing  with  her  back  towards  him  and  her  hand  upon  a 
churn ing-stick,  thinking.  *'  Her  very  boddice,"  thought  he,  "  is 
worth  all  the  dresses  at  court."  A  pang  came  over  him  as  he  remem- 
bered his  wife  playing  the  milk-maid  once  in  this  very  neighbourhood, 
and  he  asked  himself  whether  they  might  not  still  be  happy  and  con- 
stant; but  he  had  been  disappointed  so  often,  that  her  image  began  to 
look  rather  like  a  sour  interference  with  his  comfort,  than  a  kindly 
appeal  to  his  affection;  and  stepping  softly  onwards,  he  was  about  to 
tap  Fanchon  on  the  shoulder,  when  a  feeling  more  respectful  withheld 
Jiim,  and  he  pontented  himself  with  bidding  her  good  morning.  Our 
dairy-maid,  colouring,  turned  quickly  round,  and  returned  his  saluta- 
tion, adding  somewhat  abruptly,  but  evidently  without  design,  *' I 
hope  Madame  is  well."  She  followed  it  up  instantly  with  as  cordial  a 
welcome  as  her  inferiority  of  condition  would  allow  her  to  give,  and 
suffered  herself  to  be  more  familiar  than  she  might  otherwise  have 
been,  out  of  a  feeling  that  her  thoughts  on  this  occasion  ought  not  to 
hav'e  spoken  out  loud.  She  had  an  instinct  against  pedantry  of  alt 
Sorts,  and  hated  to  seem  interfering  and  didactic.  Not  that  she  knew 
a  word  about  such  words  as  didactip,  which  puzzled  her  sometimes  in 
her  friend  Ronsard ;  but  as  we  have  before  observed,  Fanchon  was  a 
charmer  by  nature ;  and  the  early  necessity  of  feeling  and  working  for 
others  had  preserved  her  character,  and  bred  thoughts  in  her  deeper 
than  she  was  aware  of.  If  she  ever  wished  to  give  pain,  it  was  only 
■when  some  proud  or  malignant  pain  had  been  given,  Her  prospensity 
both  to  give  and  receive  pleasure  was  so  great,  that  she  often  said,  if 
she  married,  ^he  would  love  her  husband,  provided  he  would  let  her, 
better  than  any  body  on  earth,  would  be  his  best  companion,  would 
die  for  him,  would  starve  for  him,  would  be  torn  to  pieces  for  him,  if 
necessary ;  but  that  husbands  must  have  a  care ;  for  though  not  of 
their  opinion  in  thinking  it  proper  to  scold  others  for  what  one  did 
one's-self,  she  would  not  undertake  to  say  that  she  should  not  feel  a 
little  bit  gpateful  to  those,  who  had  the  same  charming  qualities  as  the 
man  of  her  heart. 

It  was  the  face,  accustomed  to  be  animated  with  these  thoaghts,  that 
was  now  turned  upon  the  kind  lord  of  the  manor.  The  kiss  under  the 
limes  was  repeated,  and  repeated  again.  M.  De  Lorme  at  once  flat- 
tered and  relieved  her  by  saying,  that  all  the  accounts  he  heard  of  her 
were  much  to  his  taste  ;  and  Fanchon  thought,  that  setting  aside  this, 
Ije  dpserved  a  Itiss  for  every  good  thing  he  had  ^one  to  the  neighbour- 


THE  INDICATOR.  29 

hood  ;  which,  to  say  the  truth,  would  have  made  a  very  considerable 
series.  The  upsliot  was,  that  the  steward  above-mentioned,  having 
been  very  petulant  at  finding  his  master  come  to  the  farm,  and  not  a 
little  sarcastic  upon  "  Madcinoiselle  Fanchon,"  was  removed  to 
another  estate,  and  the  uncle  and  aunt  put  in  care  of  La  Grange.  The 
steward,  finding  his  master  never  came  down,  had  usurped  a  good  part 
of  the  house;  but  M.  De  Lorme  insisted  that  his  new  housekeepers 
should  share  it  with  him  ;  and  if  Fanchon's  apartment  was  at  a  dif- 
ierent  corner  from  his,  it.  befits  the  truth  of  our  history  to  say,  that  the 
passage  to  it  was  not  difficult,  provided  she  chose  to  let  it  lie  open  ; 
especially  as  the  good  people,  after  lecturing  their  niece  a  little  sharply, 
as  they  would  sometimes  do,  upon  the  over-vivacity  of  her  abstract 
opinions,  alwaj'S  slept  very  soundly.  Fanchon  fairly  blushed  now  and 
then,  when  they  talked  to  her  ;  and  the  lower  they  bowed  and  curtsied 
before  M.  De  Lorme,  she  blushed  the  more  ;  but  as  his  respect  for 
herself  increased,  his  quiet  indifference  towards  them  seemed  to  do  so 
likewise;  and  after  the  tribute  of  a  flood  of  tears  to  the  many  un- 
happy hours  in  which  she  had  formerly  struggled  against  her  ill  opinion 
of  those  for  whom  she  laboured,  she  agreed  with  him  that  such  mean- 
ness ought  not  to  distress  her. 

The  steward,  when  removing  his  goods  from  La  Grange,  had  taken 
care  to  lay  his  hands  upon  every  item  he  could,  so  that  M.  De  Lorme 
found  his  residence  very  barely  provided.  Fanchon  however  would 
not  suffer  him  to  furnish  it  as  he  wished.  The  goods  for  the  house- 
keeper's side  were  of  the  plainest  kind ;  and  he  could  not  persuade 
her,  when  she  admitted  him  to  a  visit,  that  he  had  acquired  a  foolish 
love  for  certain  kinds  of  tapestry  and  other  bed-chamber  ornaments. 
She  even  insisted  (for  she  woujd  get  into  strange  subjects  of  conversa- 
tion, such  as  mistresses,  of  all  others,  are  suj)posed  to  avoid)  that  he 
only  slept  the  pleasanter  for  it,  when  he  was  at  home ;  and  what  is 
piore,  she  thought  as  much  ;  and  would  be  froward  with  him,  if  he  did 
not  sleep  there  often.  "  How  much  virtue,"  thought  he,  "  in  my 
wife,  is  obscured,  and  turned  into  vice,  by  the  single  fault  of  into- 
lerance ;  and  how  very  like  the  virtue  my  wife  wants,  does  vice-^I  be- 
lieve they  call  it — look  in  this  village-girl !" 

One  day,  Fanchon  received  him  with  a  particularly  sparkling  face. 
*'  Well,"  said  she,  "  my  dear  M.  De  Lorme,  they  say  that  the  ladies 
are  fond  of  you ;  and  fond  they  must  be,  to  do  things  for  you  in 
secret."  "How  now,  real  one?"  said  M.  De  Lorme,  for  so  he  de- 
lighted to  call  her.  "  A  cart,"  she  resumed,  "  came  this  morning 
with  a  heap  of  good  things  for  you,  and  the  man  knew  nothing  of  the 
person  that  sent  them,  except  that  a  lady  gave  him  the  order,  and  paid 
for  it."— "  What  sort  of  a  lady  ?"— "  Oh  now,"  cried  Fanchon, 
*'  see  the  vain  gratitude  in  his  eyes!  We  must  find  her  out  for  him  ! 
A  lady  in  a  veil."  M.  De  Lorme  went  up  stairs,  and  found  the  bed- 
room hung  with  a  new  piece  of  his  favourite  tapestry.  It  consisted  of 
stories  from  the  Provengal  poets.  There  were  also  pictures  of  Joan  of 
Arc,  and  of  Agnes  Sorel ;  a  couple  of  noble  arm  chairs  hung  with 
crimson  velvet;  and  a  toilet,  carved  in  silver  with  shepherds  and  shep- 
herdesses, and  containing  every  thing  that  a  country  beauty  could  de- 


30  THE  INDFCATOR. 

sire,  of  CGtnbs,  bodkins,  and  lacps.  "  And  it  is  not  for  me  drily,",'  said 
M.  De  Lormo,  doubly  delighted  and  perplexed.  "  I'shall  die  till  you 
can  thank  her  for  both  of  us,"  said  Fanchon  :  *'  I  mean"  added  sho, 
lowering  her  voice,  "  till  you  can  add  my  grateful  respects,  if  you 
think  she  will  like  it."  And  the  tears  came  in  her  eyes.  M.  De 
Lorme,  whose  popularity  among  the  Parisian  ladies,  and  his  acquaint- 
ance with  their  manners  both  bad  and  good,  rendered  his  vanity  more 
than  pardonable,  considering  the  life  he  led  betwixt  Tours  and  La 
Grange,  thought  his  fair  farmer  was  growing  jealous;  but  the  way  in 
which  she  exhibited  this  new  passion,  was  so  amiable,  that  he  kissed  the 
tears  from  her  eyes  with  great  affection,  and  said  there  was  not  a  lady 
J n  the  land,  with  whom  Fanchon  need  be  afraid  of  standing  face  to 
face. 

The  truth  I'S,  tliat  during  his  absence,  Fanchon,  who  never  looked 
upon  herself  as  destined  to  be  his  chief  companion,  and  had  heard 
much  of  the  former  qualities  of  his  wife,  was  wondering  whether  he 
stopped  longer  than  usual  on  account  of  a  termination  of  their  cold- 
ness, when  a  lady  in  a  veil  (the  same,  she  had  no  doubt,  who  after- 
wards sent  the  goods)  came  unexpectedly  into  her  sitting-room,  and 
after  accepting  a  chair,  and  holding  a  silence  unaccountably  long, 
asked  her  somewhat  haughtily  whether  she  was  the  steward's  neice. 
Fanchon,  though  a  little  abashed,  contrived  to  answer  with  her  usual 
mixture  of  sweetness  and  respectfulness,  that  she  was.  The  answer 
was  followed,  after  a  less  silence,  with  atK)ther  abrupt  remark,  though 
in  a  less  haughty  tone.     "  If  this  is  your  sitting-room,"  said  the  lady, 

*lit  is  very  plainly  furnished  for  so: handsome  a  possessor."     The 

4;one  of  the  concluding  words  was  not  at  all  sarcastic;  yet  Fanchon 
coloured.  In  fact,  she  guessed  who  was  before  her,  or  she  might  have 
thought  proper  to  shew  a  gr-eater  self-possession.  "Not  plainer.  Ma* 
<lam,"  she  replied,  "  than  I  trust  is  beeoraing*"  The  stranger  seemed 
to  doubt  the  sincerity  of  these  words,  for  she  added  in  a  less  gentle 
manner,  "  M.  De  Lorme  (M.  De.  Lorme,  Mademoiselle,  is  an  old 
frifend,  and  I  happen  trt  bejust  now  particularly  interested  in  his  com- 
fort) M.  De  Lorme  is  happier,  I  am  told,  in  this  place  than  he  is  at 
home?"  Now  this  was  a  little  too  hard  of  Madame  de  Lorme;  for 
-she,  of  course,  it  was.  She  had  heard  a  great  deal  of  Fanchon  to  her 
credit,  and  what  she  heard  was  corroborated,  as  far  as  it  could  be^  by 
what  she  now  saw;  but  whether  she  judged  her  insincere  in  her  last 
answer,  or  whether  that  very  corjoboration  gave  her  a  passing  wound 
that  iriitated  her,  we  cannot  say.  Fanchon,  thus  pushed  home,  did 
not  think  of  attacking  in  turn  ;  but  she  forgot  for  a  moment,  that  there 
was  any  body  to  be  defended  but  herself;  and  said  with  an  air  of  great 
simplicity,  betwixt  enthusiasm  and  exculpation,  that  M.  De  Lorme 
was  so  kind  and  forgiving,  and  did  so  much  to  make  others  happy,  that 
«very  body  must  vvish  liim  to  be  happy,  wherever  he  was.  >'  And  yoa 
contribute,  of  course,"  said  the  stiaoger,  "  all  you  can  to  make  him 
so."  She  said  this  with  the  more  poiutedness,  inasmuch  as  she  was 
struck  with  the  truth  of  the  observation,  and  angry  with  herself 
for  feeling  ihe  very  anger.  Fanchon  turned  very  red,  then  pale, 
then  blushed,  out  in  all  the  mitural  beauty  of.htr  truth  and  good 


TlIE  rNDrCTATOR;  31 

heai'tc'clrfesfr,  aivd  said  '^^  V/ithoat  meaning  to  encfuirf^,  Madam, -what 
right  'you  bare- .'to '  i^uestion  tae  irt  tl)is  way,  but  supjKrsing  it  to  bd 
the  besrt;  a'nd  btdest  right:  in  .the  world,  perhaps  you  will  pardon  me 
for  hoping,  tliat  a  friend  of  Mv  De  Ijorme  will  not  be-oftended  with: 
me,  when  Isay,  that  neither  my  wishes  nor  «jy  endeavours  for  M.  Des 
Lorme's  happinesk<have  been  confined  to  the.  neighbourhood  in  whichri 
rtow  have  the  honour  ofisfeieing.you."^  The  laxly  appeared  greatly  agi- 
tated sat  this.  It  wksieviden-t,  through  her  vesil,  tlrat  tbe-  tears  were 
pr  aringdown  her  cheek«ji.  ^1  You  seem  ill,  Madame/^  saidFanchony* 
in  an  altered  tone,  full  of  naivete  ar«ihumiHty  ;— "  may  1  do  any  thing 
f&ryoUi"  She  stood  aloof,  ready  to  approach^  or  to:  run  any  wherci.' 
The  stranger  rose,  went  towardsiher  herself,  and  pressed  her  Ivand  ia 
the  most  affectionate  manner.-  "  You  GJtnnol:  do  more  for  me,"  said 
she,  '^than. you  have  done-  Only  keep  this  viaife  a  secret  frosi  M; 
De  Lorrae.  1  know  it  will  pain' you  to  do  so,  if  he  nraltes  many 
enquiries  ;.  but  it  will  be  a  kindness  to  all  parties,-  and  that  seems  fo  bte 
your  motto."  She"  paused- here  a  little,  and  resumed.  "  I  told  yoa 
trul^'when  I  said  I  was  an  old  friend  of  M.  De  Lorme ;  and  I  will 
prove  to  you  that  I  have  that  right  in  common  with  yourself  by  sending 
you  a  few  things,  to  adorn  the  apartment  he  likes  best  with."  Fanchpa 
made  no  scruples,  as  she  might  have  done  had  she  been  less  generous.- 
She  felt  what  was  due  to  a  generous  woman.  .  She  kissed  the  stranger's 
hand,  who  lifted  her  veil  a  little,  add  kissed-  her. on  the  mouth.  "  Yoii 
are  a  charminj^-  creature,''  .said  the  lady,,  "that  is  certain.  We  shall 
be  friends,  though  you  never  see  me-again."  "  Ah,  Madame,"  said 
Fatichon,  "  if  we  are  friends,  it  is  hard  jf  you  ^t^ill  not  see  me  againi 
I  could  walk  barefootiand  alone  to  meet  you,  wherever  you  pleased." 
The  lady  put  her  finger  on  her  lips,  as  if  to  remind  her  of  the  secret, 
and  departed.  It  was  about  a  week  or  tvfo  from,  this  sisjt,  that  the 
tapestry  canre;  and  M.  De  Lorme  after  it.        .    i  .   . 

.Madame  De  Ijorme,  by  dint  of  suffering,  and  reflection,  and  what 
helped  her .  reflection  not  a  little,  the  accounts  that  she  heard  of 
Fanchon,-*-not  omitting  an  increasing  though,  dispassionate  delicacy 
of  attention:ori  the.part  of  her  husband,- — was  def  .rmined  to  encourage 
some  very  romantic  resolutions  she  had  farmed,  b>  ixoing  and  judging 
for  herself  of  the  fair  rustic.  She  antic1'f5ate.d,  we  must  own,  that  Jier 
resolutions  might  possibly  be  somewhat  dashed  by,  what  she  saw  ;  but 
how  was  she  first  angered,  then  softened,  and  then  confirmed  in  them 
all,  by  what  she  actually  beheld  !  A  long  darkpess  seemed  melted  from 
her  eyes.  ■      ,  .    .:  .•.:.■.  j:  .  .i 

■■:  The  reader  sees  to  A^'hat  the  tapestry  led.  But  it  .was  weeks,-  and 
even  months  first.  Fanchon  thought  of  putting  the  new  furniture  iato 
M.  De  Lorme's  own  bed-hamber ;  but  at  sight  of  the  toilet,  she  saw 
for  which  room  it  was  intended;  and  she  acted  accordingly.  As  for 
M.  De  Lorme,  whether  it  was  owing  to  bis  being  such  a  favourite  with 
the  ladies,  or  to  the  habitual  notion  of  marriage  which  had  grown  upon 
him_,  we  must  leave  the  ladies  to  determine  ;  but  his  wife  was  certainly 
the  last  woman,  whorn  he  thought  of  as  the  unknown  lady.  Perhaps 
he  would  uot'Kaye  guessed  the  truth  as  soon  as  he  did,  had  he  not  been 
helped  by  the  guesses  of  Fanchon  j  and  they  had  both  to  ascertain  the 


32  '  THE  INDICATOR. 

matter,  after  all.  What  staggered  him  \vas,  that  on  his  first  rPtitrrt 
liom^  after  the  receipt  of  the  tapestry,  Madame  De  Lorme  certainijr 
appeared  more  reserved  than  usual;  though  he  must  confess  that  after- 
■wards,  there  was  a  something  in  her  conduct,— a  patience,  as  it  were,— 
a  sort  of — he  might  say — ^winning  sweetness  and  dignity  ;— he  did 
not  quite  know  how  to  finish  his  description,  especially  as  it  appear^ 
to  have  baffled  his  behaviour,  which  was  a  thing  on  which  he  piqued 
himself.  The  upshot  of  the  conversation  was,  that  he  set  out  for  Touri 
that  very  day,  and  surprised  the  lady  with  an  unexpected  visit. 

It  was  twilight;  but  Madame  was  still  poring  over  a  desk,  writing. 
She  left  ©ff  at  his  entrance,  and  said  with  a  tone  of  equal  kindness  and 
sincerity,  **  Dear  M.  De  Lorme,  is  it  you  ?  Had  you  forgotten  any 
thing,  when  you  last  went  away."  "  Yes,  Manon,"  said  he.  It  was 
the  first  time  for  many  months  that  he  had  called  her  Manon.  She 
turned  pale,  and  trembled.  *'  I  forgot,"  continued  he,  "  that  one  of 
the  kindest  of  wives  was  treating  me  with  all  sorts  of  gentleness  and 
good-humour,  and  that  I  was  one  of  the  most  insensible  of  men." 
*'  Not  so,~iAlain,"  returned  she,  hesitating  before  she  uttered  tlie 
Christian  name ;  "  my  forgetfulness  began  before  yours."  ''  May  I 
ask  what  you  are  writing  here,"  said  M.  De  Lorme,  taking  up  the 
paper  as  he  spoke,  and  endeavouring  to  break  the  confusion  by  re- 
sorting to  common-places.  Madame  De  Lorme  turned. paler.  A  fine 
lady  at  Paris,  whether  *' virtuous"  or  not,  would  have  sworn  that 
Madame  had  been  about  to  have  her  "  revenge,"  and  that  the  manu- 
script was  a  billet-doux.  It  was  the  commencement  of  some  verses  on 
her  husband's  birth-day,  hoping  that  others  would  make  him  as  happ^ 
as  l«!  and  they  deserved,  thoiJgh  it  was  not  in  her  own  power.  She 
was  in  bis  arms  the  next  minute.  What' a  long  and  dreary  mistakef 
vanished  at  the  heaven  of  that  caress  !  • 

"  But  Fanchon  ?"  the  reader  may  say.  This  is  the  very  thing  Mai 
dame  De  Lorme  said  about  half  an  hour  after  that  embrace.  Fanchon, 
It  was  agreed,  who  had  helpejd  to  make  so  much  happiness,  was  never 
to  be  made  unhappy,  was  never  to  be  treated  but  as  a  friend- and  com- 
panion, was  never  to  be  spoken  to,  or  spoken  of,  or  spoken  aboyt,  but 
as  a  delightful  and  noble-hearted  creature,  whom  every  brody  should 
make  as  happy  as  possible.  We  will  not  say  how  often  M.  De  Lorme 
was  at  the  farm  afterwards,  especially  when  Fanchon  was  married ; 
but  it  is  certain  that  he  was  not  only  there  sometimes,  but  that  Fan- 
cluMi  w-as  as  often  at  Tours;  and  Madame  De  Lorme  and  she  have 
bcpn  seen  laughing  with  all  their  might,  on  a  summer's  day,  to  th* 
grpat  scandal  of  an  old  maiden  lady,  who  thOnglit  they  were'laughing  at 
her  ;  which  they  certainly  were  not. 


•,f 
PrinleJ  and  publislied  by  Joseph  Appletard,  No.  19,  Catherine-street,  Strand. 
Price  2d.— Aud  sold  also  by  A.  GuuDON,  Importer  of  Snuffs,  No.  31,  Tavistork- 
street,  Covent-garden.     Orders  received  at  the  above  places,  and  by  all  Book- 
sellers and  Ncwsmeiu 


fioi  AJia/j  :jnT  u 

I    il  ;■■  i)   ■,  J  ?!wrK'  hue?  fifffmi  h-^rj  7'*(il  :  Jviv/oiq  e/;?/  JJ  'kiMM  bin  ir»l 

•  '     ■•   "  '  Ttiere f»eaiTmng>iund about driAftiH'"^''  '»^W<''*'  '  ■     '    "     "  "*  » 
^■,  ;!•'    .        '     .  '.       And  fakes  survey  witlr!bvlsie  curious  eye:.' fUTRI  jfR  ^• 

I'  .    <  Nuw  this,  now  that,  he  tastethteuderly,,,  J.    .  ,.     !       ■  ,, 

•■lii  ;  ■         :  :  •     t;  H:":  ■  r.    ;  ■/■■■'  .  „i 

No.  jLVIL— WEDNESDAY,   NO VEJilBEIi  Sfh,"  isscf.'*  '':*•] 

■   ^'.     '•;;!    'l-*    •     «  i>Jft 


Ai,llCrM;AN  ANIMAL,  AND. THE  OTHER  EXT^REME!. 


.-.(ii 


W?  nipt  (he  other  day,  with  the  following  description  bf  an  anioiaj  of 
quality  ih'  a  fiiogfaphical  Dictionary  that  was  published  in  the  yeat 
1767,  and'wjiich  is  one' of  the  most  amusing  and  spirited  publicatiojai 
dfthe  kifld  that  we  renieprjber  to  have  seen.  The  writer  doe^  notgiw 
fil?authoV-ity  for' .this  pavticuiarmemoir^  So  tllat  it  yas'prol^atily. fur- 
MishPd'fl'o^'h^s'divn  knowledge;  but  that  the  accoiidt  is  a  true  one,  i^ 
evident.  Indeed,"  with  ihe  exception  of  on6  or  two  eccgntricltieSJof 
prudence'  which  raf,her  teanti'to  thf!  side  of att/isxcess  ofirtstinctj  it  is  bul^ 
in  indlvidu4]  d/es<Ji'?ijtlori, 'referring to  a  tiurfterous  class  of  .th&  s^m§ 
hatiire,  tliat  o'ncefloupsh^d.with.hdrjh' and  hound  irl  tAis  dbuhjtry,  ai*d[ 
sp^ciraeris,  of  which  are  lio  dbubt  to  be  fouridherie  and  therfe  btill,  espe- 
cikily  towards  the  north*.,  The  title  we  h^Vfe^piitat  the'  head  of  it  isf 
not  qcite  correct  and  excltistve  enough  as  ade-ftnition',;"  VnCe.  pro.pe^;-ljr 
speaki,ng,  we  Iprds.of  the  creati"©!!  are  alf  hiltnan  jinimliS;'  Ijjalthe  pi6r^ 
Shimal,  or  living  and  br^afhlng  fipulty,  iS  iiniibd  in'  uS  lilore  or  les^  with 
intellect,  and  sentiment ;  and  of  these  (efineraents  of  the  percept iori,'feyf 
bipeds  that  have  arrived  at  the  dignity  pf  a  coat  and  boots  have  par- 
taken so' littre  as  the  noble  squire,  befqre  us.  Ho#  far  some  of  uS, 
who  take  oil rselvefe  for  very  rati^ntil. persons,  do  or  do  not  go.beydnd 
hrm,  weshall  perhaps  see  in  the  doili'se  of  our  remarks.  .  '  ' 

,"  The  IlonouraWe  William  Hastings,  a  gentleman  of  a  very  singular 
character,"  says  our  informant,  "  lived  in  the  year  1,638,  and  by  his 
quality  was  son,  brother,  and  uncle,  to  the  Earls  of  Huntington.  He 
'was  perad venture  an  original  in  our  age,  or  rather  the  copy  of  our  an- 
cient nobility,  in  hunting,  not  in  warlike  times. 

"  He  was  very  low,  very  strong,  and  very  active,  of  a  reddish  flaxen 
hair ;  his  clotlies  green  cloth,  and  never  all  worth,  when  new,  five 
pounds.        ..     - 

*  Since  writing^ this,  we  have  found  that  our  zoographical  original  is  in  Hut- 
thins's  Hisiofcy  of  Dorsetshire.  '  See  Gii[iia's  Forest  Scenery,  or  Drake's  Shftkspeare 
and  his  Times. 

VOL.II. 


34  THE  INDICATOR. 

*'  His  house  was  perfectly  of  the  old  fashion,  in  the  midst  of  a  large 
park  well  stocked  with  deer,  and  near  the  house  rabbits  to  serve  his 
kitchen;  many  fish  ponds ;  great  store  of  wood  and  timber  ;  a  bowU 
ing  green  in  it,  lotig,  but  narrow,  and  full  of  high  ridges ;  it  being  never 
levelled  since  it  was  plowed  :  they  used  round  sand  bowls  ;  and  it  had 
a  banqueting  house  like  a  stand,  a  large  one,  built  in  a  tree. 

**  He  kept  all  manner  of  sport  hounds,  that  run  buck,  fox,  hare, 
otter,  and  badger ;  and  hawks,  long  and  short  wing'd.  He  had  all 
sorts  of  nets  for  fish  J  he  had  a  walk  in  the  New  Forest ;  and  in  the 
manor  of  Christ  Church :  this  last  supplied  him  with  red  deer,  sea  and 
river  fish.  And  indeed  all  his  neighbours'  grounds  and  royalties  were 
free  to  him  ;  who  bestowed  all  his  time  on  these  sports,  but  what  he 
borrowed,  to  caress  his  neighbours'  wives  and  daughters;  there  being 
not  a  woman,  in  all  his  walks,  of  the  degree  of  a  yeoman's  wife,  and 
under  the  age  of  40,  but  it  was  extremely  her  fault,  if  he  was  not  inti- 
mately acquainted  Avith  her.  This  made  him  very  popular;  always 
speaking  kindly  to  the  husband,  brother,  oir  father,  who  was  to  boot 
very  welcome  to  his  hbuse  whenever  he  came. 

''  There  he  found  beef^  pudding,  and  small  beer,  in  great  plenty ;  a 
house  not  so  neatly  kept  as  to  shame  him  or  his  dusty  shoes  ;  the  great 
Jiall  strewed  with  marrow  bones,  full  of  hawks  perches,  hounds,  spa- 
niels, and  terriers ;  the  upper  side  of  the  hall  hung  with  the  fox  skins 
of  this  and  the  last  year's  killing ;  here  and  there  a  poll  cat  intermixed  j 
gaifte-keepers  and  hunters^-poles  in  great  abundance. 

*'  The  parlour  was  a  great  room  as  properly  furnished.  On  a  great 
hearth,  paved  With  brick,  lay  some  terriers,  and  the  choicest  hounds 
and  spaniels.  Seldom  but  two  of  the  great  chairs  had  litters  of  young 
cats  in  them,  v^rhich  were  not  to  be  disturbed  ;  he  having  always  three 
or  four  attending  him  at  dinner,  and  a  little  white  round  stick  of  four- 
teen  inches  Itong,  lying  by  his  trencher,  that  he  might  defend  such  meat 
as  he  had  no  mind  to  part  with  to  them. 

"  The  windows,  which  were  very  large,  served  for  places  to  lay  his 
arrows,  crosss-ijows,  stones^bows,  and  other  such  like  accoutrements* 
The  corners  of  the  room,  full  of  the  best  chose  hunting  and  hawking 
poles.  An  oyster  table  at  the  lower  end ;  which  was  of  constant  use, 
twice  a  day,  all  the  year  round.  For  he  never  failed  to  eat  oysters, 
before  dinner  and  supper,  through  all  seasons  :  the  neighbouring  town 
of  Pool  supplied  him  with  them. 

"  The  upper  part  of  the  room  had  two  small  tables  and  a  desk,  on 
the  one  side  of  which  was  a  Church  Bible,  and,  on  the  other,  the  Book 
bf  Martyrs,  On  the  tablss  were  hawks-hoods,  bells,  and  such  lik^ ; 
two  or  three  old  green  hats,  with  their  crowns  thrust  in,  so  as  to  hold 
ten  ox  a  dozen  eggs,  which  were  of  a  pheasant  kind  of  poultry,  which 
lie  took  much  care  of,  and  fed  himself.  In  the  whole  of  the  desk  were 
store  of  tobacco  pipes  that  had  been  used. 

"  On  one  side  of  this  end  of  the  room  was  the  door  of  a  closet, 
wherein  stood  the  strong  beer  and  the  wine,  which  never  came  thence 
but  in  single  glasses,  that  being  the  rule  of  the  house  exactly  observed. 
For"  he  never  exceeded  in  driukj  or  permitted  it. 


THE  INBlCATOIti'  M 

"  On  the  other  side  was  the  door  into  an  old  chapel,  no*  used  |0» 
devotion,  The  pulpit,  as  the  safest  placp,  w;a&  never  wanting  of  » 
cold  chiijre  of  beef,  venison  pasty,  gamipon  of  b^cpn,  or  great  appl0 
pye,  with  thick  crust  extremely  baked,  ,Hfe  table  cost  him  not  much, 
though  it  was  good  to  eat  ?^t. 

*'  His  sports  supplied  all  hut  beef  and  mutton;  except  Fridaysj 
•when  he  had  the  best  of  salt  fish  (as  well  as  other  fish)  he  could  get ; 
and  was  the  day  hi^  neighbours  of  best  quality  most  visited  him»  He 
never  wanted  a  London  pudding,  and  always  suqg  it  in  with,  "My 
pert  eyes  therein-a.'' ,  He  drank  a  glass  or  two  of  wine  at  meals;  very 
often  syrup  of  gillyflo>«'ers  in  his  sack;  and  had  always  a  tun  glass 
without  feet,  stood  by  him,  holding  a  pint  of  small  beer,  which  he  often 
stirred  with  rosemary..  , 

'  "  He  was  well;  natu  red  j  but  soon  angry;  calling  his  servants  bastards 
and  cucko Idly  knaves ;  in  otje  of  which  he  oftQU  spoke  truth  to  his 
Qwn  knowledge,  and  sometimes,  in  both,  though  of  the  same  man. 
lie  lived  to  be  an  hundred ;  never  lost  hjs  eyesight,  but  always  wrote 
and  read  without  spectacles;  and  got  on  horseback  without  help. 
Until  past  fourscore,  hQ  rode  to  the  death  of  a  stag  as  well  as  any." 

It  is  very  clear,  that  this  worthy  pej:Sj[>flag,e  ^as  nothing  more  than 
a  kiqd  of  beaver  or  badger  in  human  shape.  We  imagine  him  haunt* 
ing  the  neighbourhood  in  which  he  lived  like  ft.  :pet  creature,  who  had 
acquired  a  certain  J^gyptian  godship  among  the  natives ;  now  hunting 
for  his  fish,  now  for  his  flesh,  npw  fawning  9^fter  his  uncouth  fashion 
upon  a  pretty  girl,  and  now  snarling  ^nd"^  contesting  a  point  with  his 
cats.  We  imagine  him  the  animal  principle  personified ;  a  symbol  on 
horseback;  a  jolly  dog  sitting  upright  ^t  dinner,  like  a  hieroglyphic 
pn  a  pedestj3.L       " 

Button  has  a  subtle  answer  to  thofie  who  9rgue  for  the  rationality  of 
bees.  He  says,  that  the  extreme  order  of  their  proceedings,  and  the 
ujideviating  apparent  forethought  with  which  they  even  anticipate  and 
provide  for  a  cer^in  geometrical  necessity  in  a  part  of  the  structure 
of  their  hives,  are  only  additional  proofs  of  the  force  of  instiuct.  They 
have  an  instinct  for  the  order,  and  an  instinct  for  the  anticipation ;  and 
they  prose  tha-t  it, is  i\f)t  reason,  by  rieyer  striking  out  any  thing  new 
or  different.  The  same  Uiing  is  observable  ia  ouf  hum^n  animar. 
What  would  be  reason  or  C'hoice  in  another  ipan,  is  justly  to  be  s^ 
down  in  him  to  poverty  pf  ideas.  If  Tasgo  had  been  asked  the  reason 
pf  his  always  wearing  black,  he  jvould  probably  have  surpri^d  the 
epi^u^irer  by  a  series  of  quaint  and  deep  observations  pn  colpor,  and 
dignity,  and  melancholy,  and  the  dark«iess  of  his  fate  ;  but  if  Petrarch 
pr  Boccaccio  had  discussed  the  matter  with  him,  he  might  have  changed 
it  to  pu.rpfe.  A  lady, ,  in,  the  same  manner,  wears  black,,  because  it 
spit^  her  complexion,  or  is  ele^u<;atall  tiineg,  ,pr  becfiU6«.it  is  at>once 
prnp^ant  and  superior.  But  in  spring,  she  may  chuse  to  tpu^;  on  the 
flours  of  the  seafpQj  and  in  s^m|pa^er  tp  be  gj^udier  with  the' Butterflyi 
Qur  squire  had  aninstinc|;4pwards;!|ih9:colouro]f  green,  because  he  savr 
it  about  him.  He  topjt'ii;  from  what  he  lived  in,  Uke^  catueleon,  and 
^eyer  changed  i^lsecause  he  couild  live  in  no  other  sphere.     We  ^9f 


that  his^en  suit  Wa^  never' worth' fiVe  pounds ;' and  h'ofhitigV  i^^  dare 
say^  could  hav^  ihduced  him  to  let  it  mount  up  t6  tffAt  sutrt.  H6'w6tild 
have  it  grow  upott  hfiiii^  if  he  could,  like  a  gi*eeh  hiohfee^y.  "This  bgarn^ 
i^ith  hJs  bowling  gteon.  It  Was  not  penurioushtess  that  hirtdeted  hiirt 
from  altering  it,  but  he  had^  no  more  idea  of  (changing  the  plalie' than  thrf 
place' itself.'  As  Change  6f  habit  Is  frightful  to  some  men,  frtrtn  vlvafclty 
pf  affection  Or  imagination,  and  the  strangeness 'whii^htTiiiyaiiticipaffe 
iA'tho'nbVelityi,  'so  'he  was  niever  tempted  out  of  a.  (jtist^iti  b^catfse  he 
Md'noiideaof  any  thing  else.  He  would  tiotnoi^e  think  of  ftltfeHng 
the 'place  hei  burrowed  in,  than  a  tortoise  or  a  wild- tabbit:  He  ^vas 
feraa  naturae,— ra  regular  beast  of  prey;  though' fie  ml'dgted  sortiething 
of  tih^  generosity  of  the  Hon  with  the  lurking  of  th^  fb^i-  and  thtf  mis- 
chievous sporting  of  the  cat.  He  would  let  othet'  auiftials  feed  <vWl 
iiim,  only  warning  them  off  dcCasionally  with'that  S^iVch  of  his  instead 
of  a  claw.  He  had^the  same  liberality  of  instiAct  towards  the  young 
of  other  creatures,  as  we  see  in  the  hen  and  the  goat.-  He  woulil  tak* 
care  of  their  eggs,.if  h«  had-a  mind;  or  furnish  them  With  milk.  ■  llili 
yery  body  was  badger-like.  ■  It  was  *^  very  low,  yery  strdng,  and  Veiry 
active  ^'-^  and  he  ha,d  a  coarse  feilof  hair;  A  good  housewife  might 
evidently  call  his  house  a  kennel,  without  being  abusive.'  AVhat 
the  ladies  of  the  Huntingdon'  family  thought,  if  ever  they  iCame'^d 
Jt^  we  do  not  know;;  -but  next  to  hearing"  Such'^a'-feWow'aS  S'qa4V* 
Wcsterh  t&lkj  must' have  been  the  horrot  of  bis  hiiman  kindi^MIrt 
fri'eadFilg  those  menageries,  his  hall  and  parlour.  '  Thl>y  migldft  tuf li  fhe 
Jlrtcs  of  Ghaucer  into  an  exclamation  :—'  ■  '  '  -  {.i'';.'  «  n.- :ii 
-  jio  itHUn/>  K  rJWfiiatliawkissifteTi'on  the  pprch  hWveJ  ''-^''r'-'P'^  ^  *^  •'■• 
oiil'l  •?:,"''  >iii  "  'iWha^hounclis  Jiggen  6n  ;the;goor  adotwn^  '{."'M.  "   :  il/nfJ-j;-!!* 

Then  the  marrow-bpncs,  the  noise,  jandj  to  a  delicate  anrle^  tV^'sbrifei^ 
iof  datigfer!    ■  GoncMve  a  ttm'id  stranger,  not  very  welcbhi^',   qb'Hgii^a  to 


pass' thiMJtigh  the  great  hall.     The  whole'animal  world' is  yp,    'The 

WelUmoutlled  hoUhds  begin  barking,  th(  "  ''  ' —...., 

the'hawks  sldlcand  stare,  the  poultry 


WelUmoutiled  hoUhds  begin  barking,  the  rna-stiffbay^,  the  ^t(.'rr\iiti''iiiMp. 
the'hawks  sidle 'and  stare,  the  poultry  gobble,  -the  cats  gt6\f)  and^np 
nvitH'  their  bj^cks,  ■  'At  laSty  thie  Hastmgs  mak^s  his  ap^e^fifnW,^  hfi'd 


laughs' like  ;a  gbblini 
.'<  Three  things 'are  specially  observable  in  Otir  hero:  first  j 'thjfthi^  rel 
Ifgion  as  well  as  literature  was  so  entirely  confined  to  faitji^a^^  to  allow 
liim  to  turn  his  household-chapel' into  a  larder,  and  do  ahy'^tlfin^  Nse 
he  pleased,  short  of  not  ranking  the  Bible  and  Book  Of  Martyri/<rith 
iifis  other  fixtures  :--second,  that  he  carried 'the  prudential  iristinCt 
above-mentioned,  to  a  pitch  very  unusdal.in  a  Coiintfy-squire^'Who  feHii 
jrarely  refrain  ftom  making  extremes  meet  with  Ijumanltyih  fllills  in- 
stance :— and  third,  that  his  proneness-to  tiie  animalpa'rt  6t  lovt,'hev'dt 
finding  him  in  a  condition  to  be  so  brutal, 'as '  drinking  reridtV^  a'teil- 
iantofthidsortj  left  Mmself  as' well  as  others  in  ^uflvcientgBdd  huWi'dti.Kj 
Bot  only  tp  gfet  him  forgiven  1^  the  feinalesjbut  to'  act  kihdiyyhd<ft\i 
toleraited'  by'  the  men.  He  vraS  as  temperate  mi  'his  Hqubr  "as  oh6  '6'f  mi 
«ats,  just  drinking  to-quench  his  diirst,  and  Ifevihg  bit"  wheW'he'haA 
^bmoughi  This  perhaps  was  partly  b'Wftig  to  his  fanli,  whibh  VHWrto't! 
ptiider  it  necessjiry  to  his  itnpoftance  to  be  eajuloUs  with  'hii>  bottle 


THE  INDICATOR;^  37 

amoni^  squifes.  As  to  some  grave  questions  connected  ivUh.  t^  pro- 
Tiiisc6ous  nature  of  his  amOurs,' an  animal  so  totally  given  up  SX>  \m 
instincts  as  he  was,  both  selfish  and  social,  ckn  hardly  be  held  respotij" 
sible  upon  such  points;  though  they  are  worth  the,  consideration  oiF 
those,  who  in  their  old  age  undertake  to  be  moral  as  well-  as  pro^f* 
gate.  If  Mr.i Hastings's  notion  was  good  and:. even  useful,  so  far  as  it 
shewed  the  natural  gbod-hamour  of  thaf;  passion  in  human  bemgs^ 
where  sickness  Or  jealousy  is  out  of  the  question,  in  every  other  re» 
Spect  it  was  as  poor  and  paltry  as  can  be.  There  was  not  a  single  idea, 
in  it  beyond  otie  of  his  hounds.  It  was  entirely  gross  and  superficial 
without  sentiment,  without  choice,  ."without  a  thousand  sen9a1i<»tls  of 
p'leasureaHd'^he  return  of  it,  without  the  least  perception  of  a.  beajUy 
beyond  the  meje  absence  of  age.  The  most  idiotical  scold  in  the  villagi>^ 
^'wnder  40,^  wag  to  him  a  desirable  object.  The  most  lov^blCAW  OOian 
in  the  world  above  it,  was  lost  upon  him.  Such  iovers.ao  not  evdil 
enjoy  the  charms  they  suppose.^  They  do  not  see  a  twentieth  p»*t  of 
its  very  extei-nal  graces.  They  ci.'Mcise  beauty  in  the  langua^/ofa 
horse-jockey  ;  and  the  jockey  or  the  horse  himself  knows  just  as'niuql| 
about  it  as  they.  .  ■     ■  .      •>< 

In  short,  to  be  candid  on  all  sides  with  the  very  .earthly jnemory.pjf 
ihe  Honourable  Mr.  William  Hastings,  we  look  upon  a  person  of  his 
description  \o  be  a  very-good  specimen  of  the  animal  part  of  hum^a^ 
nature,  aiid  chiefly  on  this  account,  that  th6  animal  preservds  its  health. 
There  indeed' it  has  something  to  say  for  itself;  nor  must  wp  conceal 
our  persuasion,  that  upon  this  ground  al one,  the  HaSitiags  must. ^a^^ 
liad  setisations  in  the  course  of  his  life,  which  many  an  intellectual  pe?;^ 
son  might  envy.  If  bis  perceptions  were  of  a  vague  sort,  thej.mfl^ 
have  been  exqaisitely  clear  and  unalloyed.  He  must  have  had  a\l  t)jf 
pleasure  from  the  sunshine  and  the  fresh  air,  that  a  healthy  body  )f  i^h^ 
obt  a  mind  in  it  can  have  ;  and  we  may  guess  from  thedayS'of.chUpr 
hood,  what  those  feelings  may  resemble^  in  their  pjeasanlnepjs  as .,\Kql^ 
as  vagueness.  At  the  aoe  of  a  hCiqdred  he  was  able  to  read  and  wr;te 
Avithout  spectacles;  not  better  perhaps  than  he.. did lat  ftftcea,,bnt;  af 
^t'ell.  At  a  hundred,  he  was. truly  an  o)d  boy.,  aod.uo  more  thought 
;of  potting  on. spectacles  than  an  eagi?.  Why  shctuld  Jie  ?  His  blood 
■4vad  run  clear  for  a  century  with  e.tercise  and  natural  living.  He  had 
•riot  baked  it  black  and  "  heavy  thick"  over  «t  fire,  'and  dimmed  the 
j^indovvs  of  liis. perception  with  the  smoke.  ■    f,..,       .:;,,;.■  ,  ,,^ 

-.'•But  he  wanted  a  soul  to  turn  his  pefceptiopiJ  to  their  proper 
account?— He  did  So.  Let  us  then,  who  seetmx^  than  he  did,  con?- 
fcriwe'so  s6e  fair  play  between  body  and  mind.  It  js:'by  observing  the 
separate  extremes  of  perfection, :  to  which  body  and  .mind  may.a|i;rive, 
in  those  who  do  not-  know  to  unite  both,,  that  we  may  leprn  bptyf  to 
^r-odiioe  a  human,  being'more  enviable,  tJiao  ^Jther.  thLJ^:^e;a.lthiest  of  fp^* 
Auriter^s  or  the  tnos't  unearthly  of  iSaiutjr.  'i<.JtfijS,  ,remp;rk,ablej  that  tbp 
■Rtfceahf&iit  family,  which  amoog^ thpf v4f|ety ,and .fineness  of  it^pr^r 
lltections,  put  forlhifchis  specimen  of  bodj|y,humanity^,edified  the  vr,orld 
«io*ilong  after 'with  ias  complete  a  specimen  .of  .thp  oth^r  half  of  ^mau 
lifitote;'   Mr;  William  Hastings's. soul  seeifts  to  have  cqme  too, late  fof 


B  THfMNDICATOtt. 

Ills  hififjVind  to  have  Temained  afterwards  upon  earth  in  the  shape  o( 
his  fair  kinswoman^ mbe  Ijady  Elizabeth  Hastings,  daughter  pfl^eo- 
philns,  sevehtfc'  EaxI  of  llnnthigdeB.  An  account  of  her  .follows  that 
of  her  aninrat  kinitinaii,  and  i«  a  most  extraordinary  contrast..  This  is 
th«  lady,  \v  ho  is  celebrated  by  Sir  Richard  Steele  iu  the  Tatler,  undef 
*hc  naime  of  Aspasia,-'— a  title  which  must  have  startled,  her  a  Ijttle, 
Ikit  with  the  elegance  b€  the  panegyric  she  would  have  found  it  hard  not 
to  be  pleased,  not^y^th8tanding  her  modesty.  "  These  ancients  would  be 
As  much  astonished  to  see  in  the  same  age  io  ilinetrioue  a  pattern  to  alt 
*Hio  love  things  praiseworthy,  as  the  divine  Aspasia,  ]VIethi»k«  J  iiow 
fKee  her  walking  in  her  garden  i:tke  our  first  parent,  with  qnaflfected 
chair»os,t)efoi?e  beauty  had  spectators,  and  bearing  eele$|iai,  «oniscipas 
rlrtwfe'rn  her  aspect.  Her  cemntenhnce  is  the  lively  picture : of  h«r 
Atiitd,  which  is^he  seat  of  honour^  truth,  coinpas$ion,.knowtedg<'9  a^ 
Inn^ioeiicte  t-* -'  ; 

j  )  .''•Kii  :'"j;'i'!.-7J*fK>ere  dwells  the  scorn  of  vice  and  pity  top,* 

'  '**  In  tT»€  midst' of  the  most  ample  fortune,  and  veneration  ©fall  ;that 
l^^heid  and  knew  her,  without  the  least  affectation,  she  consults  retire^ 
^ent,  the  contemplation  of  her  own  being,  and  that  supreme  power 
'w^hich  bestowed  if.  Without  the  learning  of  schools,  or  knowledge  of 
4i  long  course  of  arguments,  she  goes  on  in  a  steady  course  of  virtue, 
fend  adds  to  the  severity  of  the  last  age  all  the  freedom  and  ease  of  the 
tiVeselit.  The  langirage  and  mien  of  a  Court  she  is  posseissed  of  in  the 
fiighesf  degree ;  but  the  simplicity  and  humble  thoughts  of  a  cottage 
ate  her  more  welcome  entertainment.  Aspasia  is  a  female  philosopher^ 
VRodoes  not  only  live  up  to  the  resignation  of  the  most  retired  lives  of 
ilbbe  ancient  sages,  but  al^o  the  schemes  and  plans  Ivhich  they  thought 
1)eal]Hf^I,  though  ini^iitablo.  This  lady  is  the  most  exact  economist, 
"wkhoat  appearing  busy ;  the  most  strictly  virtuous,  without  tasting  the 
Tpraiseof  it]  and  shuns  applause  with  as  much  industry  as  others  do 
feprdach.  This  character  is  so  particular,  that  it  will  be  very  easily 
iixed  OB  her,  only,  by  all  that  know  her,  but  I  dare  say  she  will  be  the 
last  tbfind  it  out."— -Tailer,  No.  42,  July  16,  1709. 

This  charactjfr  was  written  when  Lady  Elizabeth  was  twenty-eight; 
^he  passed  tlfe  rest  of  her  life  agreeably  to  it,  relieving  families,  giving 
'annuities,  contributing  to  the  maintenance  of  schools  and  university- 
'Scholars,  and  all  the  ^hile  behaving  with  extraordinary  generosity  to 
her  kindred,  and  keeping  tip  a  noble  establishment.  Those  whom 
'^ubhti  description  incites  to  know  more  6f  her,  will  find  a  good  sum- 
Wary  of  her  vftry  of  life  in  Miss  Hays's  Female  Biography,— a  work, 
T^ytlie  way,  which  Contrives  to  be  at  (ince  deferential  and  liberal,  and 
odght'to  be  in  the  possession  of  all  her  intelligent  countrywomen. 
'  Mite  Hays  informs  os,  that  the  close  of  this  excellent  person'^S 
Iffe'  Was  as  suffering  as  it  was  patient.  An  'a$;cidental  eontusioR  in  her 
"bosotn  at  an  early  period  of  life)  had  left  the  seeds  of  a  cancer,  whidi 
^pr  many  years  she  disregarde'd.  About  a  yeiar  and  a  half  Jbefore  her 
ideath,  she  vvas  obliged  to  lindfergo  an  amputation  of  the  partaffected; 
Vhiclt  she  did  with  a  noble  and  sweet  fortitude,  described  iin  a 
Very  (outhiiNg  mrimter  by  aniitheF  of  her  biograpers.    .'^  Her  ladyship,'' 


THE  INDICATORv  39 

he  tells  OS,  "  underwent  this  painful  operation  with  surprising  patience 
and  resolution:  she  shewed  no  reluctancy;  no  struggle  or  contention. 
Or  even  any  complaint  did  she  make ;  only  indeed,  towards  the  end  of 
the  operation,  she  drew  such  a  sigh,  as  anyconypassionate  readet  tnayy 
when  he  hears  this."  This  is  one  of  the  truest  and  most  pathetic  things 
we  ever  remember  to  have  read.  Unfortunately,  the  araputatiott 
though  it  promised  well  for  a  time,  did  no  goed  at  last.  The  disorder 
returned  with  increased  malignity,  and  after  submitting  to  it  with  hof 
usual  patience,  and  exhorting  her  household  and  friends  upon  her 
death-bed  in  a  high  strain  of  enthusiasm,  she  expired  on  the  22d' 
Decembor,  1739,  in  the  67th  year  of  her  age.  "  Her  character  ia^ 
miniature,"  says  the  biographer  just  quoted,  "  is  this.  She  was  a  lady 
of  the  exactest  breeding,  of  fine  intellectual  endowments,  filled  with 
divine  wisdom,  renewed  in  the  spirit  of  her  mind,  fired  with  the  love 
of  her  creator,  a  friend  to  all  the  world,  mortified  in  soul  and  body, 
and  to  every  thing  that  is  earthly,  and  a  little  lower  than  the  angels.'* 
He  has  a  mysterious  anecdote  of  her  in  the  course  of  his  accounti 
**  The  following  remarkable  circumstance  happened  to  her  in  her 
yoath.  A  young  lady  of  less  severity. of  manners  than  herself,  in* 
vited  her  once  to  an  entertainment  over  a  romance,  and  rery  dear  di<l 
she  pay  for  it:  what  evil  tinctures  she  took  from  it  I  cannot  tell :  but 
this  I  can,  that  the  remembrance  of  it  would  now  and  then  annoy  kef 
spirit  down  into  declining  life."  Miss  Hays  concludes  the  memoir  iii 
the  Female  Biography,  with  informing  us,  that  *'  she  was  fond  of  het . 
pen,  and  frequently  employed  herself  in  writing;  but,  previous  to  her 
detth,  destroyed  the  greater  part  of  her  papers.  Her  fortune,  beauty^ 
and  amiable  qualities,  procured  her  many  solicitations  to  change  her 
state,  but  she  preferred,  in  a  single  and  independent  life,  to  be  mis- 
tress of  her  actions,  and  (he  disposition  of  her  income." 

It  seems  pretty  clear  fiora  all  these  accounts,  that  this  noble-hearted 
woman,  notwithstanding  her  beauty  and  sweet  temper,  wai  as  imper*- 
feet  a  specimen  of  the  comfortable  in  body,  as  her  kinsman  was  Jii 
mind.  We  are  far  from  meaning  to  prefer  his  state  of  existence.  VV« 
confess  indeed,  that  there  are  many  we  here  read  of,  whom  we  would 
prefer  being,  to  themost  saintly  of  solitary  spirits;  butthemere  reflectiou 
of  the  good  which  Lady  Elizabeth  did  to  others,  would  not  allow  u» 
a  moment's  hesitation,  if  compelled  to  chuse  between  inhabiting  het 
infirm  tenement,  and  the  jolly  vacuity  of  Honourable  William.  At  th« 
same  time,  it  is  quite  evident  to  us,  that  the  fair  saint  neglected  the 
earthly  part  of  herself  in  a  way  neither  as  happy-making  nor  as  pious 
as  she  took  it  for.  Perhaps  the  example  of  her  kinsman  tended  to 
assist  this  false  idea  of  wliat  is  pleasing  to  heaven,  and  to  make  her  a 
little  too  peremptory  against  herself;  but  what  had  not  her  lovers  a 
right  to  say  ?  For  our  parts,  had  we  lived  then,  and  been  at  all  fitted 
to  aspire  to  a  return  of  Jier  regard,  we  should  h?ive  thought  it  a  very 
unfair  and  intoIeraMe  thing  of  her,  to  go  on  doing  the  most  exquisite 
and  seducing  actions  in  the  world,  and  tell  us  that  she  wished  to  be 
mistress  of  her  own  time  and  generosities.  So  she  might,  and  yet  been  gt- 
ntrous  to  u.s  too  as  well  as  to  the  charity-boyis.     Dut  setting  all  this  aside 


4&.  mW.lN'mQATORv 

(and  the  roa!  secret 'oif-U  ib  to  be  fouftd  perhaps  in-  mart^rS)  into  It  Welti 
\rc  cannot  in^uit-e),  a  prpper  attention  to; that  boaiiteeusfoiin  which: 
her  spipjt  inhabited  might  have  done  great: -gopd*. to  herself..  -She  not 
Ottty' 4i«ed  nearly  half  a. century  less,  than  her.kipsman,  aud  th^is 
»hQrtQDed  a(  useful  life  ;  but  the  less  healthy,  stfit^  of  her  blood  rerider^dr 
even. a iou I  like  her's  liable  to.inc^rsi^ns  of' melancholy  to  the. last 
moment  of  her  existence.  If  it  may  be  said  that,  this  ationilatedhej^ 
the.njore,  to  extracthappinessorit  of  the  bappinessof  others,  we  do  not* 
d^ny  that  it  may  haye  dpne  so.;-  nor, dpiwe  pretend  to. say,;  that, this* 
ihight  not  bavfe  been  he*  best  state,  pf  tyiistence  for  herself  aiid'all  of  jus^t 
if  jrt'ecoold  ioquil'fe  into,  matters  hidden  from  pur  sight.  But  upqn  th£<il 
principle,  so  m^ight  her  telatiou's.  It  is  inr]f)ossible  to  argue  to.  any  pqrf^! 
pose  upon  these  assumptions,  which  are  only  good  for  patience,  nqt, 
fo4;  action.  William  Hastings  was  all  bo.dily  .comfort;  Elizabeth, 
Hsistings  was  all  mental  grace.  Hoyv  far  ttie?  liabilUy  of  the  former, 
to-gustsof  passion,  as  Well  as  his  other  circumstances  of  being,, settjed 
the  balance  with  her  necessity. for  being  patient,  it  is  impossible  to,,  say ; 
but  it  is  very  easy  to  say,  that  nobody  would  like  to  undergo,  oppratipns 
foF  a  cancer,  or  to  die  at  fifty-sp.v.ejn,  whettthfy  cpuli]  liv^li/BaltlMly  tQ 

^.hundred.  .  >   •:  7'».>-.  N* '.";!u.;r.i/,  .  :r.;   /•>  'onrN  •;  vi  i, -i;  / 

..What  then  is  our  conclusion?  .Thi&:^tl?a|  the  proper  point  of 
Iminanijfey.  has  between  these  two  natures,  though  npt.  j^t  6q,ual  djs-^ 
taiKjeSy — ;the  greatest  possible  sum  of  happiness  for, mankind /d^mand- 
ipgy  that  gr^at  part  of  •  our  pleasure  should  bq^founded  in  thp.t  of  others. 
Thbse  however  who  hold  rigid  theories  of  morality,  and  yel;  pr^actise 
them  not  (which  is  much  oftener  the  ca^e  with  such  theories  thaa^hft 
fQHerse)  must  takeicare  how  they  flatter  tliemselvesthey  at  all  resembjg 
J^ady  Elizabeth  Hastings.  Their  extreme  diffiqrence  with.her  kjnsmaft 
is  a  mere  cantv,to  whiqh  all  the  privileged  selfishness  and  sensuaUty  i<^ 
the  world  give  the  lie,— r-all  the  pomps  and  vanities,  all  the  hajtreds, 'all 
the  malignities,  all  the  eatings  and  drinkings,.  such  as  William^ Hastings 
fcimself  would  have  been  ashame4  of.,  In  fact,  their  real  instincts  are 
generally  as  seliish  as  his,  though  in  other  shapes,  and  much  less  a^^ree- 
ftble  for  every  body.  When  cant  lives  as  long  a  life,  as  his,  or  as  goo4 
a  one  as  hers,  it  will  be  worth  attending  to.  Till  then,  the  best  thing 
Ip  advise  is,  neither  to  be  canting,  nor  merely  animal,  nor  over  spirr-i, 
tual,  butto  endeavour  to  enjoy  with  the  greatest  possible  distributiou 
of  happiness,  all  the  faculties  we,  receive  from  nature.; 


JPmvted  and  publisliecl  by  Joseph  Appleyard,  No.  19,  Cfltherine-streef,  Strand. 
Price  2d. — And  sold  also  by  A.  Gliddon,  Importer  of  SiuiflFs,  No.  31,  Tavistofk- 
street,  Covent-garden.     Orders  received  at  the  above  places,  ahd  by  all  Boo k- 

•   sellers  and  Newsmen. 


THE    I ND  re  At  OR. 


There  he  arriving  round  about  doth  flie. 
And  takes  survey  with  busie  curious  eye; 
Now  this,  now  that,  he  tasteth  tenderty. 

SpENSGni 


No.  LVIII.— WEDNESDAY,  NOVEMBER  15tli,  1820. 


SONGS  OF  ROBIN  HOOD. 


The  second  of  the  following  songs  was  intended  for  the  third  num- 
ber of  another  little  publication  edited  by  the  present  writer,  entitled 
the  Literary  Pocket-Book.  But  he  had  mislaid  it ;  and  when  reco- 
vered, it  was  too  late  for  the  number  in  question,  which  will  be  pub- 
lished in  the  course  of  a  few  days.  The  first  song  has  already  appeared 
in  that  work;  but  the  Editor  has  repeated  it  in  the  present,  partly, 
he  must  own,  because  he  has  been  somewhat  overworked  of  late  and 
would  snatch  a  little  repose ;  and  partly,  that  the  series  of  songs,  with 
which  he  intends  to  indulge  himself  occasionally  on  this  good  old 
English  subject,  may  be  found  complete  in  one  and  the  same  publica- 
tion.     ' 

ROBIN   HOOD,    A    CHItD*"  >^    -'  ' 

.   .  .  •     ,  ■  .         .  •  .i,'.:i'o(iT 

It  was  the  pleasant  season  yet, 

When  the  stones  at  cottage  doors 
Dry  quickly,  while  the  roads  are  wet. 

After  the  silver  showers. 

The  green  leaves  they  looked  greener  still, 

And  the  thrush,  renewing  liis  tune. 
Shook  a  loild  note  from  his  gladsome  bill 

Into  the  bright  blue  noon. 

Robin  Hood's  mother  looked  out,  and  said 

"  It  were  a  shame  and  a  sin 
Tor  fear  of  getting  a  wet  head 

To  keep  such  a  day  within. 
Nor  welcome  up  from  his  sick  bed  " 

Your  uncle  Gamelyn."  „^ 

VOL.TI. 


42  THE  INDICATOR. 

And  Robin  leaped,  and  Oioiight  so  too; 

And  so  he  has  grasped  her  gown ; 
And  now  looking  back,  they  have  lost  the  view 

Of  merry  sweet  Locksley  town. 

*  Robin  was  a  gentle  boy, 

And  therewithal  as  bold; 

'to  say  he  was  his  mother's  joy, 

It  were  a  phrase  too  cold. 

His  hair  upon  his  thoughtful  brow 
Came  smoothly  clipped j  and  sleeky 

But  ran  into  a  curl  somehow 
Beside  his  meci-ier  cheek. 

Great  love  to  him  his  uncle  too 

The  noble  Gamelyn  bare^ 
And  often  said,  as  his  mother  knew, 

That  he  should  be  his  heir. 

Gamelyn's  eyes,  now  getting  dimj 

Would  twinkle  at  his  sight, 
And  his  ruddy  wrinkles  laugh  at  him 

Between  his  locks  so  white  : 

For  Robin  already  let  him  see 
He  should  beat  his  playmates. all 

At  wrestling,  running,  and  archery; 
Yet  he  cared  not  for  a  fall. 

Merriest  he  was  of  merry  boys, 

And  would  set  the  old  helmets  bobbing  j 

If  his  uncle  asked  about  the  noise, 
'Twas  "  If  you  please,  Sir,  Robin." 

And  yet  if  the  old  man  wished  no  noise. 
He'd  come  and  sit  at  his  knee. 

And  be  the  gravest  of  grave-eyed  boys; 
And  not  a  word  spoke  he^ 

So  whenever  he  and  his  mother  came 
To  brave  old  Gamelyn  Hall, 

'Twas  nothing  there  but  sport  and  game, 
And  holiday  folks  all : 

The  servants  never  were  to  blame^ 
Though  they  let  the  physic  fall. 

And  now  the  travel  1 6rs  turn  the  road^ 
And  noiw  they  hear  the  rooks; 

And  there  it  is, — the  old  abode, 
With  all  its  hearty  looks. 

Robin  laughed,  and  the  lady  too, 

And  they  looked  at  one  another; 
Says  Robin  "  I'll  knock,  as  I'm  used  (o  do, 
'  At  uncle's  window,  mother." 

And  so  he  picked  up  some  pebbles  and  ran, 

And  jumping  higher  and  higher, 
Me  reached  the  windows  with  tan  a  ran  tan, 
*■  •*■  And  in.ste'ad  of  the  kind  old  white-haired  man, 

There  looked  out  a  fat  friar* 


THE  INDICATOR.  f45 

"  How  rvow,"  said  the  fat  friar  angrily, 

"  What  is  this  knocking  so  wild?" 
But  vvlien  hfi  saw  young  Robin's  eye. 

He  said  '^  Go  round,  my  child  : 

Go  round  to  the  hall,  and  I'll  tell  you  all." 

He'lMell  us  all!  thought  Robin;  'v 

And  his  mother  and  he  went  quietly, 

Though  her  heart  was  set  a  throbbing. 

The  friar  stood  in  the  inner  door. 

And  tenderly  said,  "  I  fear 
You  Vnow  not  the  good  squire's  no  more. 

Even  Gatnelyn  de  Vere. 

Gamelyn  de  Vere  is  dead. 

He  changed  but  yesternight:'^ 
*'  Now  make  us  way,"  the  lady  said, 

"  To  see  that  doleful  sigJit." 

"  Good  Gamelyn  de  Vere  is  dead, 

And  has  made  us  his  holy  heirs:" 
The  lady  stayed  not  for  all  he  said. 

But  went  weeping  up  the  stairs. 

Robin  and  she  went  hand  in  hand. 

Weeping  all  the  way. 
Until  tbeyijame  where  ths  lord  of  that  land 

Dumb  in  his  cold  bed  lay. 

His  hand  she  took,  and  saw  his  dead  look. 

With  the  lids  oyer  eacTi  eye-ball  ;  ,  • 

And  Robin  and  she  wept  ap  plen.leously,      '  " 

As  though  he  had  left  them  all. 

*'  I  will  retur-n,  Sir  Abbot  of  Vere, 

I  will  return  as  is  meet,  ■     . 

And  see  my  honoured  brother  dear  '    ' 

Laid  in  Iris  winding  sheet. 

And  I  will  stay,  for  to  go  were  a  sin^ 

For  hU  a  woman's  tears, 
^nd  see  the  noble  Garaelyti 

Laid  low  with  the  De  Veres." 

The  lady  went  with  a  sick  heart  out 

Into  the  kind  fresh  air. 
And  told  her  Robin  all  about 

The  abbot  whom  he  saw  there : 

And  how  his  uncle  rnust  have  been 

Disturbed  irt  his  failing  sense. 
To  leave  his  wealth  to  these  artful  men 

At  her's  and  Robin's  expense. 

Sad  was  the  stately  day  for  all 

But  the  Vere  Abbey  friars. 
When  the  cofiin  was  stript  of  its  liidiing,pa,ll, 

Amidst  the  hushipg  clioi.rs. 


m  THE  INDICATOR. 

Sad  was  the  earth-dropping  "  dust  to  dust," 
And  "  our  dear  brother  here  departed;" 

The  lady  shook  at  them,  as  shake  we  must  j 
And  Robin  he  felt  strange-hearted. 


That  self-same  evetiing,  nevertheless. 
They  returned  to  Locksley  towp, 

The  lady  in  a  dumb  distress, 
And  Robin  looking  down. 

Tliey  went,  and  went,  and  Robin  took 
Long  steps  by  his  mother's  side, 

Till  she  asked  him  with  a  sad  sweet  look 
What  made  him  so  tboughtfuUeyed. 

*f  I  was  thinking,  mother,"  said  little  Robin, 
And  with  his  own  voice  so  true 

He  spoke  right  out,  *^  That  if  I  was  a  king, 
I'd  see  what  those  friars  do." 

His  mother  stooped  with  a  tear  of  joy, 
And  she  kissed  him  again  and  again. 

And  said,  "  My  own  little  Robin  boy. 
Thou  wilt  be  a  King  of  Men  I" 


jiOBisr  hood's  flight, 

Robin  Hood's  mother,  these  twelve  years  now. 
Has  been  gone  from  her  earthly  home; 

And  Robin  has  paid,  he  scarce  knew  liow, 
A  sum  for  a  noble  tomb. 

The  church-yard  lies  on  a  woody  hill, 

Butopen  to  sun  and  air; 
It  seems  as  if  the  heaven  still 

Were  looking  and  smiling  there. 

Often  when  Robin  looked  that  way, 
He  looked  through  a  sweei  thin  tear; 

But  he  looked  in  a  different  manner,  they  say. 
Towards  the  Abbey  of  Yere. 

He  feared  not  for  its  ill-got  wealth. 

He  felt  not  for  his  pride; 
He  had  youth,  and  strength,  and  health, 

And  enough  for  one  beside. 

But  he  thought  of  his  gentle  mother's  cheek 

How  it  sunk  away. 
And  how  she  used  to  grow  more  weak 

And  weary  every  day; 

And  how  when  trying  a  hymn,  her  voice 

At  evening  would  expire, 
How  unlike  it  was  the  arrogant  noise 

Of  the  hard  throats  in  the  quire: 


THE  INDICATOR.  45 

And  Robin  tltottgh't  fob  bf  the  pftor; 

How  they  toiled  witliGdt  their  share, 
And  how  the  alms  at  the  abbey-door 

But  kept  them  as  t'hey  were': 

And  lie  thousrh't  liihn  tl>en  of  the  frr«f  s  agam, 

Who  rode  jinplitig  lip  and  doWn 
With  their  trappinfis  and  thing's  as  fiiie  as  tbeking'is, 

Though  they  wore  but  a  shaven  crown. 

And  then  bold  Robin  hefhoughtof  the  king, 

How  he  got  all  his  forests  atid  deer. 
And  how  he  made  the  hungry  swing 

If  tliey  killed  but  Che  ia  a  year.  "• 

And  thinking  fhus,  as  Robin  stood 

Digging  his  bow  in  tire  grolind, 
He  was  aware  in  Gamelyn  wood, 

Of  one  who  looked  around. 

♦'  And  What  is  Will  doihg,"  said  Robin  then,        ' 

"  That  he  looks  so  fearful  and  wan  ?" 
♦'  Oh  my  dear  master  tlmt  should  have  been, 

I  am  a  weary  man." 

**  A  weary  man,"  said  Will  Scarlet,  "  am  I; 

For  unless  I  pilfer  this  wood 
To  sell  to  the  flelchers,  for  want  I  shall  die 

Here  in  this  forest  so  good. 

*'  Here  in  this  forest  where  I  have  been 

So  happy  and  80  stout, 
And  like  a  palfrey  on  the  green 

Have  carried  you  about." 

"  And  why.  Will  Scarlet,  not  come  to  me  ? 

Why  not  10  Robin,  Will  ? 
For  1  remember  thy  love  and'thy  glee, 

And  tile  scar  that  marks  thee  still; 

*'  And  not  a  soul  of  my  uncle's  men    .  ' 

To  such  a  pass  should'cdme,' 
While  Robin  can  find  in  his  pocket  or  bin 

A  penny  or  a  crumb. 

•'  Stay  thee.  Will  Scarlet,  stay  awhile; 

And  kindle  a  fire  for'mp." 
And  into  the  wood  for  half  a  mile. 

He  has  vanished  instantly.' 

Robin  Hood  with  his  cheek  on  fire, 

Has  drawn  his  bow  so  stern, 
And  a  leaping  deer,  with  one  leap  higher. 

Lies  motionless  in  the  fern. 

Robin,  like  a  proper  knight 

As  he  should  have  been. 
Carved  a  part  of  the  shoulder  right, 

And  bore  off  a  porliou  clean. 


46  THE  INDICATOR. 

«  Oh  what  hasl  tliou  done,  dsarinaster  mine! 

What  hast  thou  done  for  me  ?" 
*»  Roast  it,  Will,  for  excepting  wine 

Thou  shalt  feast  thee  royally." 

And  Scarlet  took  and  half  roasted  it, 
Blubbering  vritli  blinding  tears, 
,     And  ere  he  had  eaten  a  second  bit, 
A  trampling  came  to  their  ears. 

They,  heard  the  tramp  of  a  liotse's  feet. 

And  they  listened  and  kept  still. 
For  Will  was  feeble  and  knelt  by  the  meat; 

And  Robin  he  stood  by  Will.       ;  I 

**  Seize  him,  seize  him!"  the  Abbot  cried 
With  his  fat  voice  tlirough  the  trees ; 

Robin  a  smooth  arrow  felt  and  eyed. 
And  Will  jnmped  stQut  with  his  knees. 

*'  Seize  him,  seize  him!"  gnd  no^jr  they  appear 

The  Abbot  and  foresters  three. 
"  'Twas  l,"  pried  Will  Scarlet,  »f  that  killed  the  deer.' 
Says  Robin,  "  Now  let  not  a  man  come  near, 

Or  he's  dead  as  dead  can  be." 

But  on  they  came,  and  with  an  embrace 

The  first  one  the  arrow  met, 
And  he  came  pitching  forward  and  fell  on  his  face, 

Like  a  stumbler  in  the  street. 

The  others  turned  to  that  Abbot  vain, 

But  "  seize  him  !"  still  he  cried. 
And  as  the  second  turned  again, 

An  arrow  was  in  his  side. 

**  Seize  him,  seize  him  stJU,  I  sayj" 

Cried  the  Abbot  in  furious  chafe, 
*'  Or  these  dogs  will  grow  so  bold  some  day, 

Even  priests  will  not  be  safe." 

A  fatal  word  !  for  as  he  sat 
'  Urging  the  sword  to  cut, 

An  arrow  stuck  in  his  paunch  so  fat, 
As  in  a  leathern  butt, 

As  in  a  leathern  butt  of  wine; 

Or  dough,  a  household  lump; 
Or  a  pumpkin,  or  a  good  beef  chine,        » 

Stuck  that  arrow  with  a  dump. 

*•  Truly,"  said  Robin  without  fear, 
,  Smiling  there  as  he  stood, 

"  Never  was  slain  so  fat  a  deer 
In  good  old  Gamelyn  wood. 

"  Pardon,  pardon,  Sir  Robin  stout," 

Said  he  that  stood  apart, 
"  As  soon  as  I  knew  thee,  1  wished  thee  out. 

Of  the  forest  with  all  my  heart. 


TflE  inbtcatok;  4r 

"  And  I  pray  thee  let  me  follow  thee 

Any  where  under  the  sky, 
For  thou  wilt  never  stay  here  with  thCj 

Nor  without  thee  can  1." 

Robin  smiled,  and  suddenly  fell^ 

Into  a  little  thought; 
And  then  into  a  leafy  deH, 

The  three  slain  men  they  brought- 

Ancle  deep  in  leaves  so  red, 

Which  autumn  there  had  cast, 
When  going  to  her  winter-bed 

She  had  undrest  her  last. 

And  there  in  a  hollow,  side  b^  side. 

They  buried  them  under  the  treen  j 
The  Abbot's  belly,  for  all  it's  pride, 

Made  not  the  grave  be  seen. 

Robin  Hood,  and  the  forester. 

And  Scarlet  the  good  Will, 
Struck  ofF among  the  green  trees  there! 

Up  a  pathless  hill  j 

And  Roliin  caught  a  sudden  sigirt. 

Of  merry  sweet  Locksley  town, 
Reddening  in  the  8UR>set  bright; 

And  the  gentle  tears  came  down. 

Robin  looked  at  the  town  and  land 

And  the  church-yard  where  it  lay; 
And  poor  Will  Scarlet  kissed  his  hand, 

And  turned  his  head  away. 

Then  Robin  turned  him  with  a  grasp  of  Will's, 

And  clapped  him  on  the  shoulder, 
And  said  with  one  of  his  pleasant  smiles, 

"  Now  shew  us  three  men  bolder.'' 

And  so  they  took  their  march  away  ')  <>> 

As  firn\  a«  if  to  fiddle,  .,..[\ 

To  ptirney  that  night  and  all  next  day 
With  Robin  Hood  in  the  middle. 


48  THE  INDICATOR. 


THIEBAULTj    KING  OF   NAVARRE,   TO    HIS   tOtE; 

Las!  Si  j'avois  ponvoir  d'oublier 

Sa  beaule,  son  bien  diie, 
Et  son  tres  doox  regardefj 

Finiroia  mon  martyre. 

Mais  fas!  mon  cceur  je  n'en  puis  oterj 

Et  grand  affolage 

M'est  d'esperer; 

Mais  te!  servBg'e 

Donne  courage 

A  tout  endurer. 

Et  puis  comment  oublier 

Sa  beauie,  son  bien  dire, 
Et  son  tres  doux  regarder? 

Mieux  aime  mon  martyre. 


Ah  !  could  I  but  forget 
Her  beauty,  her  sweet  tone 
\         And  talking,  and  that  lov«fy  look  at  one»  .    ' 

"My  martyrdom,  I  think,,  weie  ended  yet. 

But  ah  1  I  cannot  tear  myself  ap^irti 

And  great  simplicity 

Is  hope  in  me; 

Only  such  thrall 

Gives  one  the  heart 

To  go  through  ail. 

And  how  could  T  forget 

Her  beauty,  her  sweet  tone  ^ 

And  talking,  and  that  lovely  look  at  one? 

My  martyrdom's  too  sweet. 

Oar  readers,  for  one  of  the  reasons  mentioned  in  the  introduction 
to  this  number,  will  be  good  enough  to  excuse  the  shortness  of  it.  In 
the  next  we  shall  expatiate  in  our  usiaal  longitude. 


Printed  and  published  by  Joseph  Appletakd;^  No.  19,  Catherine-street,  Strand, 
Price  2d. — And  sold  also  by  A.  Gmddon,  Importer  of  Snuffs,  No.  31,  Tavistook- 
streef,  Covent-garden.  Orders  received  at  the  above  places,  and  by  all  Book* 
sellers  and  Nevvsmeii. 


.m>j*/DmH; 


THE    INDICATOR. 

There  he  arriving  round  about  doth  flie. 
And  takes  survey  writh  busie  curious  eye : 
Now  this,  now  that,  he  tasteth  tenderly. 

Spensbh* 


Tr 


No.  LIX.— WEDNESDAY,  NOVEMBER  22d,  1820. 

.A  '!^J>/i- — 

APRIL. 

Rapuael. — Raffaello   Sanzio,,  the.  Prince  of  Painters,  was   born 
April  9th,  (March  28th,  OS.)  1483,  at  Urbin'o  in  the  States  of  the 
Church.     Ills  father  was  himself  a  painter,  though  an  indiflFerent  one; 
but  it  may  be  observed,  that  a  talent  which  often  manifests  itself  dimly 
in  a  parent,  shines  out  with  full  lustre  in  the  oflFspring.     The  germ  has 
come  to  its  flower;  and  an  early  familiarity  with  the  art  or  science 
completes  what  inclination  had  begun.     Raphael,  while  yet  a  boy, 
took  leave  of  his  parents  with  great  fondness  on  both  sides,  to  go  under 
the  care  of  Pietro  Perugino,  one  of  the  earliest  masters  of  modern  ^xtk 
Pietro's  style  was  crude  and  monotonous,  but  he  had  a  real  talent  for 
expression  ;  and  thus  the  finest  part  of  his  disciple's  genius  remained 
uninjured,  pjerhaps  was  even  prevented  from  deserting  its  simplicity. 
He  afterwards  introduced  his  old  master  by  his  side,  in  his  famous  pic- 
ture of  the  School  of  Athens.     On  quitting  Perugino,  he  began  to  de- 
sign at  Sienna ;  but  was  speedily  called  off  by  the  fame  of  Da  Vinci 
and  Michael  Angelo  to  Florence.     Here,  after  improving  his  mannec 
by  the  admiration  of  the  works  of  those  great  men,  he  fell  with  equal 
zeal  and  patience  to  the  study  of  the  ancient  sculptures ;  and  what 
with  these,  and  his  own  natural  genius,  succeeded  in  forming  a  style  of 
united  sweetness  and  power,  which  placed  him  on  the  throne  of  his  art. 
A  certain  felicity  attended  him  in  all  that  he  did.     His  genius  was 
strictly  what  is  called  happy,,  that  is  to  say,  original,  easy,  and  fertile. 
The  age  he  lived  in  was  a  great  one,  for  his  own  art  as  well  as  others, 
yet  his  fame  was  at  its  height  in  his  life-time ;  and-  he  lived  to  see  his 
school  support  it.     His  disciples,  one  of  whom  was  the  famous  Giulio 
Romano,  were  so  attached  to  him,  that  they  followed  him  about  like  a 
guard  of  honour.  He  had  thepleasureof  having  Giulio  Romano  with  him. 
at  his  dinner-table  every  day,  till  he  died.    His  mistress,  the  celebrated 
Fornarina,  who  was  also  his  friend  and  companion  to  the  last,  and  tp 
>vhom  he  did  not  hesitate  openly  to  leave  the  bulk  of  his  property,  has 
the  reputation  of  having  been  as  handsome  as  she  was  amiable.     He 
himself  was  one  of  the  most  handsomej  graceful,  and  good-tempered  of 

Vol.  II. 


50  THE  INDICATOR. 

men.     Ifhis  life  was  comparatively  short,  there  is  no  knowing  how 
much  he  may  have  crowded  into  it.     It  appears  to  have  been  full  of 
pleasing  images ;  and  there  was,  not  one  that  presented  itself  to  Jiis 
mind,  but  what  his  hand  could  as  easily  transfer  to  the  canvas.     The 
very  number  of  hts  works  is  not  among  the  least  of  his  wonders.     In 
short,  he  was  honoured  and  caressed  by  the  powerful,  enriched  by 
the  rich,  admired  and  esteemed  by  the  many,  and  had  the  love  of  the 
fair,  and  the  friendship  and  panegyric  of  men  of  genius.— Raphael  died, 
as  he  was  born,  on  a  Good  Friday,  in  the  year  1520,  having  just  com- 
pleted his  87th  year.     In  those  days,  when   the  papal  sceptre  was  in 
the  hands  of  the  Medici,  men  of  genius  were  rewarded  by  church- 
dignities.     Bibbiena,  who  began  with  a  comedy,  ended,  with  being  a 
cardinal :  so  did  Bonibo,   who  commenced  with  love  and  poetry  :  and 
the  like  honour,  it  is  said,  was  intended  for  our  painter.     Others  say, 
that  Cardinal  Bibbiena  intended  his  niece  for  him, — an  honour,  which 
though  more  to  his  taste,  he  is  said  to  have  repeatedly  put  off,  probably 
out  of  love  for  the  companion  of  his  heart.     Perhaps  the  talk  about 
the  cardinal's  hat  was  one  of  the  best  modes  that  could  be  found 
of   avoiding   the  wife.      He   was    so   fond    of   La  bella  Fornarina, 
that  the  same  story  is  related  of  him  as  of  Sacchini  the   musician, 
who   resembled  him   in  the  amatory   part  of  his  genius.     When   he 
painted  the  story  of  Cupid  and  Psyche  on  the  walls  of  the  Chigi  pa- 
lace, he  was  so  perpetually  going  away  and  staying  with  his  fair  friend, 
that  Chigi  at  last  prevailed  on  him  to  let  him  shut  them  both  up  toge- 
gether  in  the  rooms  that  were  to  be  adorned.     They  were  so  ;  and 
Cupid  and  Psyche  were  painted,  as  it  were,  at  the  light  of  her  eyes. 
His  death  i"s  said  to  have  been  owing  to  the  mistaken  treatment  of  a 
Tiervons  fever!,  th6  cause  of  which,  delicate  in  his  excesses,  he  scrupled 
to  mention  to.  the  physician.     But  it  is  understood,  that  his  intense 
sense  of  the  beautiful  devoured  him.     It  is  to  be  observed,  that  there 
tvas  one  deficiency  in  our  painter's  genius,  which  was  remarkable,  and 
thie  supply  of  which  might  have  helped  to  balance  the  other  part  of  his 
femperatiient.     In  all  his  works,  he   shews  a  singular  absence  of  the 
love  of  rural  nature.     A  tree  or  so  \s  an  absolute  god-s(  nd.     His  want 
of  a  sylvan  imagination  even  degenerates  sometimes  into  meanness.— 
We  know  not  What  his  friend  Ariosto  must  have  thought  of  his  picture 
of  Parnassus  :  but  instead  of  any  luxuriance  of  laurel-trees,  which  he 
might  at  least  have  suggested  in  the  back  ground,  he  has   divided  it 
into  three  unifornl  parts   with  three  little  patches  of  them,  and   the 
Castalian  stream  issues  out  of  an  absolute  rain-spout.     It  is  probable, 
from  these  and  other  considerations,  that  he  led  a  very  sedentary  lifr, 
almost  exclusively  in  the  city  of  Rome,  and  thus  rendered  his  systi'ni 
still   more  sensitive  than   it  was  by  nature  to  the  impression  of  flesh 
and  blood.     As  a  jjaintcr  of  humanily,  in  all  its  varieties  of  thought 
as  well  as  beauty,  he  was  nciver  approached,     Corregio  apprehends  as 
well,  perhaps  even  boflcr,  a  certain  exquisite   maternity  and  tender- 
ness ;  but   to   these   Raphael  adds  every  other  grace  under  heaven. — 
Michael   Angelo   impresses   upon  us  a  certain  weight   of  reflecfion, 
amounting  to  the  ponderous  ;  but  with  all  his  undoubted  greatness,  ho 
resoris  too  much  to  violence  in  his  very  repose.     There  is  too  much 


THE  INDICATOfl.  51 

affectation  in  him  of  force  and  muscle.  He  cannot  sufficiently  divest 
power  of  the  physical ;  and  mistakes  Hercules  for  Jupiter.  Raphael 
knows  when  to  be  violent  too,  and  how  to  make  violence  intrflectual ; 
but  still  "  as  with  a  difference,'^  In  his  Paul  preaching  at  Athens, 
how  admirably  has  he  not  contrived  to  shew  the  naturally  fierce  cha- 
racter of  the  saint,  sublimated  into  a  zeal  for  mankind  !  In  the  same 
picture,  is  a  gross  man  of  the  world,  a  candid  doubter,  a  sneering 
one,  a  stoic  and  his  pupil,  the  latter  making  up  for  his  want  of  the 
venerable  and  austere  by  mutlling  himself  in  his  cloak,  and  an  Epicu- 
rean and  his  pupil,  a  youth  as  harmonious  in  all  his  faculties  as  we 
might  suppose  Raphael  to  have  been  himself.  His  Christ  in  the  boat 
is  the  very  acme  and  tenderest  top  of  all  that  is  meek  and  sublimated 
in  the  character  of  Christian  humility.  Leonardo  da  Vinci's  is  fine; 
it  is  enthusiastic,  prophetic,  intellectually  dominant.  Michael  Angelo's 
is  as  warlike  as  Christianity  is  apt  to  be.  But  Raphael's  alone  is  what 
is  understood  by  Christian  perfection.  It  is  powerful,  from  the  very 
negation  of  power.  A  sentiment  sustains  it,  or  it  looks  as  moveable 
as  the  gentlest  air  on  the  water.  To  smite  that  cheek,  seems  as  if  it 
would  be  to  shatter  the  benignity  of  the  summer  heavens,  and  to  pro- 
voke the  downfall  of  the  universe.  The  translation  of  Raphael's 
works  upon  copper  is  more  difficult  than  that  of  most  painters,  because 
he  deals  so  much  in  delicacy  of  expression;  yet  he  seems  to  have  in- 
spired the  engravers.  In  his  Siege  of  Rome,  the  Attila,  without  being 
a  caricature,  is  a  crowned  animal;  and  the  very  trumpets,  to  which  he 
has  given  dragon-mouths,  seem  ready  to  split  with  the  expansion  of 
their  jaws  and  the  violence  of  their  outcry.  Then  turn  to  his  more 
theological  works  or  to  his  School  of  Athens,  and  you  repose  at  the 
feet  of  all  that  is  sage  and  quiet.  You  shall  have  a  churchman  piercing 
into  the  depth  of  a  mystery,  or  a  boy  trying  to  solve  a  problem,  with 
equal  voluminousness  of  expression.  You  shall  have  a  young  canon 
blushing  over  his  infidelity  at  a  miracle,  and  opposite  him  a  Pope 
kneeling  in  all  the  united  complacency  of  his  belief  and  his  rank  ;  oa 
one  side  a  number  of  eager  faces  pressing  to  get  a  sightof  the  pheno- 
menon ;  on  another,  a  set  of  high  and  dark  faces  of  the  finest  times 
of  Italy  ;  on  another,  two  boys  officiating  in  surplices,  whose  young 
bodies  seem  palpable  through  the  very  folds  of  their  drapery.  Thea 
go  to  the  Madonnas  and  children,  and  almost  wish  to  be  a  Catholic  ; 
and  then  again  to  the  series  of  Cupid  and  Psyche,  and  rejoice  like  a 
bridegroom  to  run  your  course. 

Illness  again  compels  the  Editor  to  make  up  his  paper-  as  well  as  he 
can.  He  would  have  his  revenge -upon  it,  if  he  could,  and  writje  upon 
an  author's  diseases  ;  but  he  is  forbidden.  Robin  Hood  therefore  must 
sing  some  of  his  carols  for  him  to  "  his  worthy  masters  and  mistresses.'- 
A  specimen  is  added,  of  the  forthcoming  number  of  the  Literary 
Pocket-Book  mentioned  in  his  last;  and  the  number  coQcludes  with  a 
characteristic  portrait  Avhich  originally  appeared  in  the  Examiner, 
but  which  is  fitter  for  its  present  $itMfttioa., 


6%  THE  INDICATOtt.' 


ROBIN    HOOD,   AN    OUTLAW. 

Bobin  Hood  ia  an  outlaw  bold 

Under  the  greenwood  tree  ; 
Bird,  nor  stag,  nor  morning  air 

Is  more  at  large  than  he. 

They  sent  against  him  twenty  men, 

Whojoitied  him  laughing-eyed; 
They  sent  against  him  thirty  more, 

And  they  remained  beside. 

All  the  stoutest  of  the  train, 

That  grew  in  Gamelyn  wood, 
"Whether  they  came  with  these  or  not, 

Are  now  with  Robin  Hood. 

And  not  a  soul  in  Locksley  town 

Would  speak  him  an  ill  word  ; 
The  friars  raged  ;  bnt  no  man's  tongue, 

Nor  even  feature  stirred : 

Except  among  a  very  few 

Who  dined  in  the  Abbey  halls ; 
And  then  with  a  sigh  bold  Robin  knew 

His  true  friends  from  his  false. 

There  was  Roger  the  monk,  that  used  to  make 

All  monkery  his  glee  ; 
And  Midge,  on  whom  Robin  had  never  turned 

His  face  but  tenderly : 

With  one  or  two,  they  say,  besides. 

Lord  !  that  in  this  life's  dream 
IVIen  should  abandon  one  true  thing 

That  would  remain  with  them. 

We  cannot  bid  our  strength  remain. 

Our  cheeks  continue  round  ; 
We  cannot  say  to  an  aged  back. 

Stoop  not  towards  the  ground  ; 

We  cannot  bid  our  dim  eyes  see 

Things  as  bright  as  ever ; 
Nor  tell  our  friends,  though  friends  from  youth, 

That  they'll  forsake  us  never  : 

But  we  can  say,  I  never  will, 

Friendship,  fall  off  from  thee; 
And,  oh  sound  truth  and  old  regard, 

Nothing  shall  part  us  three. 


HOW  ROBIN  AND  HIS  OUTLAWS  LIVED  IN  THE  WOODS. 

Robin  and  his  merry  men 

Lived  just  like  the  birds ; 
They  had  almost  as  many  tracks  as  iheughts, 

And  whistles  and  songs  as  words. 

Up  they  were  with  the  earliest  sign 

Of  the  sun's  up-looking  eye ; 
But  not  an  archer  breakfasted 

Till  he  twinkled  from  the  sky. 

All  the  morning  they  were  wont 

To  fly  their  grey-goose  quills 
At  butts,  or  wands,  or  trees,  or  twigs, 

Till  theirs  was  the  skill  of  skills. 


THE  indicator:  ^  53 

With  svvofils  too  tliey  played  lustily, 

And  at  quarter-staff; 
Many  a  hit  woiilj  have  made  some  cry,  ■• 

Wliicli  only  made  litem  laiigli. 

The  horn  was  then  their  dinner-bell ; 

When  like  princes  of  the  wood, 
Under  the  glimmering  summer  trees, 

Pure  venison  was  their  food. 

Pure  venison  and  a  little  wine, 

Except  when  the  skies  were  rough  ; 
Or  vvliei)  they  had  a  feasting  day; 

For  their  blood  was  wine  errough. 

And  story  then,  and  jokej  and  song. 

And  Harry's  harp  went  round  ;    - 
And  sometimes  th^'d  get  up  and  dance, 

For  pleasure  of  t9le,^ound. 

Tingle,  tangle!  said  tile  hsrp. 

As  they  footed  in  and  out ; 
Good  lord  !  it  was  a  sight  to  see 

Their  feathers  float  about ; — 

A  pleasant  sight,  especially 

If  Margery  was  there. 
Or  little  Ciss,  or  laughing  Bess, 

Or  Moll  wiiU  the  clumps  of  hair; 

Or  any  other  merry  lass 

From  the  neighbouring  villages, 
Who  came  with  milk  and  eggs,  or  fruit,  > 

A"  singing  through  the  trees. 

For  all  the  country  round  about 

Was  fond  of  Robin  Hood, 
With  whom  they  got  a  share  of  more 

Than  the  acorns  in  the  wood  ; 

Nor  ever  would  he  suffer  harm 

To  woman,  above  all ; 
No  plunder,  were  she  ne'er  so  great. 

No  fright  to  great  or  small ; 

No, — not  a  single  kiss  unliked, 

Nor  one  look-saddening  clip  ; 
Accurst  be  he,  said  Robin  Hood, 

Makes  pale  a  woman's  lip. 

Only  on  the  haughty  rich, 

And  on  their  unjust  store, 
He'd  lay  his  fines  of  equity 

For  his  merry  men  and  the  poor. 

And  special  was  his  joy  no  doubt 

(Which  made  the  dish  to  curse) 
To  light  upon  a  good  fat  friar. 

And  carve  him  of  his  purse. 

A  monk  to  him  was  a  toad  in  the  hole, 

And  an  abbot  a  pig  in  grain, 
But  a  bishop  was  a  baron  of  beef, 

With  cut  and  come  again. 

Never  poor  man  came  for  help, 

And  went  away  denied  ; 
Never  woman  for  redress, 

And  went  away  wet-eyed. 


54  THE  INDICATOR. 

Says  Robin  to  tlie  poor  who  caine 

To  agk  of  him  relief, 
Yoii  do  but  get  your  goods  again. 

That  were  altered  by  the  thief ; 

There,  ploughman,  is  a  sheaf  of  your's 

Turned  to  yellow  gold; 
And,  miller,  there's  your  last  year's  rent, 

'Twill  wrap  thee  fram  the  cold  : 

And  you  there,  Wat  of  Lancashire, 
Who  such  a  way  have  come, 

Get  upon  your  land-lax,  man. 
And  ride  it  merrily  home. 


THE  MAID-SERVANT 


Must  b6  considered  as  young,  or  else  she  has  married  the  butcher, 
Ihe  butler,  or  her  cousin,  or  has  otherwise  settled  into  a  chari^ter  dis- 
tinct from  her  original  one,  so  as  to  become  what  is  properly  called 
the  domestic.  The  Maid-Servant,  in  her  apparel,  is  either  slovenly 
and  fine  by  turns,  and  dirty  always ;  or  she  is  at  all  times  snug  and 
jieat  and  dressed  according  to  her  station.  In  the  latter  case,  her  ordi- 
nary dress  is  black  stockings,  a  stuff  gown,  a  cap,  and  a  neck-handker- 
chief pinned  corner-wise  behind.  If  you  want  a  pin,  she  just  feels 
aboat  her,  and  has  always  one  to  give  you.  On  Sundays  and  holidays, 
and  perhaps  of  afternoons,  she  changes  her  black  stockings  for  white, 
puts  on  a  gown  of  a  better  texture  and  fine  pattern,  sets  her  cap  aad  her 
curls  jauntily,  and  lays  aside  the  neck-handkerchief  for  a  high-body, 
■<vhich,  by  the  way,  is  not  half  so  pretty.  There  is  something  very 
■warm  and  latent  in  the  handkerchief, — something  easy,  vital,  and 
genial,  A  woman  in  a  high-bodied  gown,  made  to  fit  her  like  a  case, 
is  by  no  means  more  modest,  and  is  much  less  tempting.  She  looks 
like  a  figure  at  the  head  of  a  ship.  We  could  almost  see  her  chucked 
out  of  doors  into  a  cart  with  as  little  remorse  as  a  couple  of  sugar- 
loaves.  The  tucker  is  much  better,  as  well  as  the  handkerchief;  and 
is  to  the  other,  what  the  young  lady  is  to  the  servant.  The  one  always 
reminds  us  of  the  Sparkler  in  Sir  Richard  Steele ;  the  other  of  Fanny 
in  Joseph  Andrews. 

But  to  return.  The  general  furniture  of  her  ordinary  room  the 
kitchen  is  not  so  much  her  own  as  her  Master's  and  Mistress's,  and 
need  not  be  described  :  but  in  a  drawer  of  the  dresser  or  the  table,  in 
company  with  a  duster,  and  a  pair  of  snujBTors,  may  be  found  some  of 
her  property,  such  as  a  brass  thimble,  a  pair  of  scissars,  a  thread-case, 
a  piece  of  wax  candle  much  wrinkled  with  the  thread,  an  odd  volume 
of  Pamela,  and  perhaps  a  sixpenny  play,  such  as  George  Barnwell  or 
Mrs.  Behn's  Oroonoko.  There  is  a  piece  of  looking-glass  also  in  the 
•window.  The  rest  of  her  furniture  is  in  the  garret,  where  you  may 
find  a  good  looking-glass  on  the  table  ;  and  in  the  window  a  Bible,  a 
comb,  and  a  piece  of  soap.  Here  stands  also,  under  stout  lock  and 
key,  the  migli<y  mystery, — the  box, — containing  among  other  things 


THE  INDICATOR.  ^     -  55 

her  clothes,  two  or  three  song-books,  consisting  of  nineteen  for  the 
penny;  sundry  Tragedies  at  a  halfpenny  the  sheet;  the  Whole  Na- 
ture of  Dreams  laid  open,  together  with  the  Fortune  Teller  and  the 
Account  of  the  Ghost  of  Mrs.  Veal ;  the  Story  of  the  Beautiful  Zoa 
who  was  cast  away  on  a  desart  island,  shewing  how,  &c. ;  some  half- 
crowns  in  a  purse,  including  pieces  of  country-money,  with  the  good 
Countess  of  Covenfry  on  one  of  them  riding  naked  on  the  horse;  a 
silver  penny  wrapped  up  in  cotton  by  itself;  a  crooked  sixpence,  givea 
her  before  she  came  to  town,  and  the  giver  of  which'  has  either  for- 
gotten or  been  forgotten  by  her, 'she  is  not  sure  which  ;-^wo  little 
enamel  boxes,  with  looking-glass  in  the  lids,  one  of  them  a  fairing,  the 
other  ''  a  trifle  from  Margate ;''  and  lastly,  various  letters,  square 
and  ragged,  and  directed  in  all  sorts  of  spellings,  chiefly  with  little  let- 
ters for  capitala.  One  of  them,  written  by  a  girl  who  went  to  a  day- 
sthool,  is  directed  "  miss." 

In  her  manners,  the  Maid-servant  sometimes  imitates  her  young 
mistress;  she  puts  her  hair  in  papers,  cultivates  a  shape,  and  occa- 
sionally contrives  to  be  out  of  spirits.  But  her  own  character  and 
condition  overcome  all  sophistications  of  this  sort ;  her  shape,  fortified 
by  the  mop  and  scrubbing-brush,  will  make  it's  way :  and  exercise 
keeps  her  healthy  and  cheerful.  From  the  same  cause  her  temper  is 
good  ;  though  she  gets  into  little  heats  when  a  stranger  is  over  saucy, 
or  when  she  is  told  not  to  go  so  heavily  down  stairs,  or  when  some  un- 
thinking person  goes  up  her  wet  stairs  with  dirty  shoes, — or  when  she 
is  called  away  often  from  dinner ;  neither  does  she  much  like  to  be 
seen  scrubbing  the  street-door  steps  of  a  morning  ;  and  sometimes  she 
catches  herself  saying,  "drat  that  batcher,''  but  immediately  adds, 
''  God  forgive  me."  The  tradesmen  indeed,  with  their  compliments 
and  arch  looks,  seldom  give  her  cause  to  complain.  The  milkman  be- 
speaks her  good-humour  for  the  day  with  "  Come,  pretty  maids."— 
Then'follow  the  batcher,  the  baker,  the  oilman,  &c.  all  with  their 
several  smirks  and  little  loiterings  ;  and  when  she  goes  to  the  shops 
herself,  it  is  for  her  the  grocer  pulls  down  his  string  from  it's  roller 
with  more  than  ordinary  whirl,  and  tosses,  as  it  were,  his  parcel  into 
a  tie, — for  her,  the  cheesemonger  weighs  his  butter  with  half  a  glance, 
cherishes  it  round  about  with  his  patties,  and  dabs  the  little  piece  on  it 
to  make  up,  with  a  graceful  jerk. 

Thus  pass  the  mornings  between  working,  and  singing,  and  gigglingy 
and  grumbling,  and  being  flattered.  If  she  takes  any  pleasure  un- 
connected with  her  oflice  before  the  afternoon,  it  is  when  she  runs  up 
the  area-^teps  or  to  the  door  to  hear  and  purchase  a  new  song,  or  to 
see  a  troop  of  soldiers  go  by  ;  or  when  she  happens  to  thrust  her  head 
out  of  a  chamber  window  at  the  same  time  with  a  servant  at'the  next 
house,  .when  a  dialogue  infallibly  ensues,  stimulated  by  the  imaginary 
obstacles  between.  If  the  Maid-servant  is  wise,  the  best  part  of  her 
work  is  done  by  dinner-time ;  and  nothing  else  is  necessary  to  give 
perfect  zest  to  the  meal.  She  tells  us  what  she  thinks  of  it,  when  she 
calls  it  "  a  bil  o'  dinner."  There  is  the  same  sort  of  eloquence  in  her 
other  phrase,  "a  cup  o'  tea;"  but  the  old  ones,  and  the  washer- 
women beat  licr  at  that.     After  tea  in  great  houses,  she  goes  with  the 


5(5  ^  THE  INDICATOR. 

other  Servants  to  hot  cockles,  or  What-are-my-thoughts-like,  and  tells 
Mr.  John  to  "  have  done  then  ;"  or  if  there  is  a  ball  given  that  night, 
they  throw  open  all  the  doors,  and  make  use  of  the  music  up  stairs  ta 
dance  by.  In  smaller  houses,  she  receives  the  visit  of  her  aforesaid 
cousin  ;  and  sits  down  alone,  or  with  a  fellow  Maid-servant,  to  work  j 
talks  of  her  young  Master  or  Mistress  and  Mr.  Ivins  (Evans)  ;  or  else 
8he calls  to  mind  her  own  friends  in. the  country,  where  she  thinks  the. 
cows  and  "  all  that"  beautiful,  now  she  is  away.  Meanwhile,  if  she 
is  lazy,  she  snuffs  the  caudle  with  her  scissars;  or  if  she  has  eaten 
more  heartily  than  usual,  she  sighs' double  the  usual  number  of  times, 
and  thinks  that  tender  hearts  were  born  to  be  unhappy. 
•  Such  being  theM^id-rservant's  life  in  doors,  she  scorns,  when  abroad, 
to  be  any  thing  but  a  creature  of  sheer  enjoyment.  The  Maid-servant, 
the  sailor,  and  the  school-boy,  are  thg  three  beings  that  enjoy  a  holi- 
day beyond  all  the  rest  of  the  world  ; — andall  for  the  same  reason,— 
because  their  inexperience,  peculiarity  of  life^  and  habit  of  being  with 
persons  of  circumstances  or  thoughts  above- them,  give  them  all,  ta 
Ihetr  way,  a  cast  of  the  romanlic.  The  most  active  of  money  getters 
is  a  vegetable  compared  with  them.  The  Maid-servant,  wlien  siie  tirs^ 
goes  to  Vauxhall,  thinks  she  is  in  heaven.  A  theati'e  is  all  pleasure 
to  her,  whatever  is  going  forward,  whether  the  play,  or  the  music,  or 
the  waiting  which  makes  others  impatient,  pr  the  munching  of  apples 
and  gingerbread  nuts  which  she  and  her  party  commence  almost  as. 
soon  as  they  have  seated  themselves.  She  prefers  tragedy  to  comedy, 
because  it  is  grander,  and  less  like  w-hat  she  meets  with  in  general ; 
and  because  she  thinks  it  more  in  earnest  also,  especially  in  tlie  love.^ 
scenes.  Her  favourite  play  is  "  Alexander  the  Great  or  the  Rival 
Queens.'*  Another  gieat  delight  is  in  going  a  shopping.  She  loves  la 
look  at  the  patterns  iii  the  windows,  and  the  fine  things  labelled  with, 
those  corpulent  numerals  of  "  only  7s." — ''only  6s.  6d.''  She 
has  also,  unless. born,  and  bred  in  London,  been  to  see  my  Lord  Mayor, 
the  fine  people  coming  out  of  Court,  and  the  "  beasties"  in  the  Tower ; 
and  at  all  events  she  has  been  to  Astley's  and  the  Circus,  from  which 
she  comes  away  equally  smitten  with  the  rider  and  sore  with  laugh- 
ing at  the  clown.  But  it  is  difficult  to  say  what  pleasure  she 
enjoys  mo^t.  One  of  the  completest  of  all  is  the  fair,  where  she  walks 
through  an  endless  round  of  noise,  and  toys,  and  gallant  apprentices, 
and  wonders.  Here  she  is  invited  in  by  courteous  well-dressed  people 
as  if  she  were  the  mistress.  Here  also  is  the  conjurer's  booth,  where 
the  operator  himself,  a  most  stately  and  genleel  person  all  in  white, 
calls  her  Ma'am ;  and  says  to  John  by  her  side,  in'spite  of  his  laced 
kat,  *'  Be  good  enough.  Sir,  to  hand  the  card  to  the  lady." 

Ah!  may  her  "  cousin"  turn  out  as  true  as  he  saysheiiS:  or  may 
she  get  home  soon  enough  and  smiling  enough  to  be  as  happy  agaii| 
next  time. 

, .     * 

Printed  and  published  hy  Joskph  Appley-^ud,  Noi  19,  Ctitheiine-street,  Strand. 

.  Price  2d. — And  sold  also  by  A.  (iHODOx,  liii|)oitec  of  SnufTs,  No.  31, 'l'a\  istork- 
street,  Covent-gardeii.  Orders  received  at  llie  above  places,  and  by  ull  Book- 
sellers and  Newsmen.  ■       ' 


THE    INDICATOR. 

There  ht  arriving  round  about  Uotli  flic. 
And  takes  survey  witli  busie  curious  eye: 
Now  this,  now  that,  he  tastetli  tenderly. 


Spenskr. 


No.  LX.— WEDNESDAY,   NOVEMBER  29th,  1820. 

For  the  same  reason  as  last  week,  the  present  Indicator  is  chiefly 
made  up  of  articles  which  appeared  some  time  ago  in  the  Examiner, 
That  the  Editor  regrets  being  obliged  to  do  this,  will  easily  be  believed  ; 
because  it  is  only  saying  tliat  he  would  rather  be  well  than  ill.  But 
articles  of  this  nature  are  better  suited  to  a  work  like  the  present  ;" 
some  of  them  may  be  little  known  to.  most  of  his  readers^  perhaps  for-. 
gotten  atlhis  distance  of  time  by  others  ;  and  at  all  events,  as  the  main 
part  of  his  merit  (such  as  it  is)  consists  in  a  spirit  of  sociality,  they 
will  treat  him,  during  his  sicknfss,  with  the  toleration  of  friends. 

Luckily,   vyhile  he   was  writing  this  exordium,  the  letter   arrived, 
which  follows,  and  for  which,  on  every  account,  he  returns  his  best 
thanks  to  the  fair  author.     As  he  could  not  kiss  her  hand  for  it,  he, 
very  reverently  kissed  her  hand-writiqg..    It  is  well  worth  the  earnest. 
attention  of  liis  readers,  both  fa-ir  and  brown.     The  Editor  though  not 
a_ friend  to  marriage,  in  the  sum  total  of  its  present  system,  is,  on  that 
very  account,  one  of  the   warmest  friend.s  in  the   world  to  the  prin-^ 
ciples  most  calculated  to  make  iwo  good  and  generous  hearts  count 
each  other  their  best  and  chiefest  enjoyment  through  life.     And  he  is 
sure  his  Correspondent  thinks  so  ;  but  it  was  necessary  perhaps  to  say 
this,  lest  some  others  should  make  mistakes  that  are  but  too  common 
on  this  most  important  and  most  ill-understood  subject. 

An  aukward  mistake  occurred  in  the  last  Indicator,  owing  to  the^ 
Editor's  absence.  The  paragraph  which  stands  at  the  end  of  the 
sketch  of  Raphael,  should  have  been  at  the  head  of  the  paper  f  and  it 
ought  to  have  been  mentioned  that  the  sketch  itself  was  taken  from  the 
Calendar  of  Birth-days  in  the  work  alluded  to  ;  which  will  account  for 
its  being  headed  April.  , 

ON  JEAtOUSy  IN  MARRIAGE. 
Mr.  lNi»rcATOR, — I  have  read  from  its  commencement  the  very 
pleasant  little  paper  from  which  you  derive  this  title,  and  always  with, 
great  interest.  It  requires  no  uncommon  degree  of  penetration.  Sir,  to 
discover  that  you  are  a  general  friend  to  our  seix,  nor  is  your  regard 
less  visible  in  your  censure  than  in  your  panegyrics  ;  yet  notwithstand- 
ing this  good  disposition  towards  us,  you  are  not  it  seems  a  friend  to 
marriage.  I  am  a  married  woman,  and  a  happy  one ;  yet,  so  far,  at 
least,  I  acquiesce  in  ybur  ophiions,  as  to  believe  that  by  far  the  greater' 
proportion  of  marriages  are  unhappy.  The  foundation  for  much  of 
this  misery  is  laid,  I  fear,  in  the  early  education  of  both  sexes;  but  it 
is  of  woman  only  that  I  now  wish  to  speak. 

'  Will  you  allow  me.  Sir,  to  offer  to  your  notice  a  maxim  most  Care- 

folly  implanted  in  the  minds  of  young  Avomen,  (no  doubt  with  the  best 

intention,  but)  which  my  own  experience  has  led  me  to  consider  as  in-^ 

judicious  and  mischievous  in  the  extreme  ?  "  ' ' '    '  '    ' ' 

Vol.  II. 


58  THE  INDICATOR. 

I  was  the  eldest  of  two  children,  and  was  six  years  of  age  at  the 
birth  of  my  sister.  I  was  not  naturally  jealous,  and  was  highly  delighted 
with  this  little  baby  ;  but  the  attention  of  my  mother  was  now  divided,, 
and  no  opportunity  was  lost  of  reminding  me  that  my  sister  had  put  my 
nose  out  of  joint.  When  we  were  sent  for  into  the  parlour  after  dinner, 
the  Caresses  naturally  lavished  upon  the  younger  child,  were  always 
followed  by  some  expression  of  compassion  for  me.  "  Poor  little 
thing,  she  is  jealous,"  and  a  peach,  or  an  apple,  or  a  cake,  was  given 
me  to  console  me  for  the  attention  paid  to  my  little  sister.  At  first  I 
was  at  a  loss  to  comprehend  what  this  could  mean,  but  seeing  that  I 
was  always  rewarded  for  the  imagined  jealousy,  I  began  to  think  it 
incumbent  upon  me  to  exhibit  it,  until  gradually  it  became  but  top 
real,  and  the  smallest  praise  or  attention  bestowed  upon  any  other 
person,  I  felt  as  an  injiury  done  to  myself,  and  resented  accordingly. 

Thus  early  was  the  foundation  laid  for  future  misery.  I  lost  my 
naother  while  I  was  yet  a  child,  and  was  placed  under  the  care  of  an 
aunt  who  loved  me  better  than  anything  else  on  earth.  Perhaps  few 
things  had  ever  given  this  good  lady  more  pleasure  than  my  marriage 
with  Mr.  A.  (now  tny  husband);  yet  for  several  months  preceding  this 
event,  she  continually  warned  me  with  the  most  persevering  earnest- 
ness, that  I  must  not  expect  the  same  attentions  from  Frederic  after 
marriage  ;  that  once  a  husband,  he  would  cease  to  be  a  lover  :  that  it 
"was  the  way  with  all  husbands,  and  I  must  not  expect  mine  to  be  an 
exception.  In  the  fullness  of  my  affection,  I  could  not  believe  that 
Frederic  could  ever  change  :  I  could  not  indeed  believe  it.  Yet  fre- 
quently this  often  repeated  warning  would  strike  like  a  sudden  chill 
upon  my  heart.  We  were  married;  the  first  four  months  after  our 
marriage  we  passed  in  the  country^  and  during  this  time  nothing  inter- 
mpted  our  mutual  happiness  ;  but  we  had  no  sooner  returned  to  town, 
and  to  society,  than  it  began  to  be  shaken.  Frederic  was  an  enthu- 
siastic admi'i^r  of  beauty ;  I  was  rxot  unhandsome,  but  in  oar  circle 
of  friends  there  were  several  women 'who  surpassed  me  in  this  respect. 
I  considered  the  admiration  of  my  husband  as  belonging  exclusively  to 
me  J  and  consequently  the  smallest  gallantry  towards  any  other  woman 
was  offensive  to  me.  I  would  then  brood  upon  the  dreadful  warning 
my  aunt  had  given  me ;  "  sTie  was  right,'*  thought  I,  "  already  he  has 
ceased  to  love  me ;"  my  own  affection  undiminished,  I  lost  ray  spirits, 
and  at  last  my  temper. 

Possessed  with  the  idea,  that  he  ceased  to  be  a  lover,  I  saw  every 
thing  in  a  false  light.  If  a  party  of  pleasure  was  proposed,  includ- 
ing any  female  whom  my  husband  in  any  degree  admired,  I  found 
some  excuse  for  absenting  myself,  if  indeed  I  could  not  succeed 
in  setting  it  aside  altogether.  So  by  degrees  I  withdrew  myself 
almost  entirely  from  society.  In  the  same  proportion  as  1  be- 
came unsocial,  my  husband  was  driven  by  the  change  in  me  to 
seek  society  more  agreeable,  and  our  happiness  .was  threatened  with 
utter  destruction.  I  had  a  friend  many  years  older  than  myself, 
who  appeared  to  be  as  happy  with  her  husband  as  I  had  been  the  first ; 
four  months  after  my  marriage.  I  desired  very  much  to  know  how  she 
had  worked  this  miracle,  but  I  knew  no  way  of  introducing  the  con- 
versation without  conveying  some  suspicion  of  my  own  discontent. 
At  last  I  ventured  (hiding  the  anguish  of  my  heart  under  a  forced 
laugh)  to  observe  to  her,  that  her  husband  falsified  the  common  maxim, 
for  that  he  was  as  gallant  as  a  lover,  though  it  was  said  that  all  men 


THE  INDICATOR.  59 

sligTited  their  wives  after  the  honeymoon.  Perhaps  the  good  lady 
suspected  the  true  state  of  my  mind  ;  for  although  without  appearing 
to  apply  it  to  myself,  she  answered  me  with  more  than  usual  earnest- 
ness of  affection,  "  It  is  falsely  said,  with  a  husband  like  your's  and 
mine,  my  dear;  it  must  be  a  woman's  own  fault,  if  she  be  not  every  day 
happier  than  the  last."  My  heart  was  too  full  to  speak ;  but  not  to 
betray  my  feelings,  I  again  forced  a  laugh.  She  continued  in  the  same 
earnest  tone  as  before  ;  ''  My  husband  has  always  been  my  first  consi- 
<Jeration,  upon  every  occasion  great  and  small ;  and  I  have  endea- 
voured as  much  as  possible  to  associate  myself  with  his  ideas,  either  of 
pain  or  pleasure, — always  as  softening  the  one,  as  promoting  the 
other.  If  he  is  in  sorrow,  he  tl^lnks  of  his  wife,  as  one  that  will  giye 
him  solace  :  if  he  takes  a  rural  walk;  bethinks  of  hi^  wife,  for  she  has 
been  accuf;omed  te  enjoy  such  walks  with  him  ;  if  he  goes  without  her 
to  any  place  of  public  amusement,  he  thinks  of  his  wife,  for  she  usually 
accompanies  him :  if  in  her  absence  he  enjoys  a  social  evening  with 
some  friends,  he  wishes  for  his  yt'ife  to  enjoy  it  also,  and  thinks  of  the 
pleasure  she  will  have  in  learning  how  happy  he  has  been  ;  nay,  (added 
she,  smiling),  shpuld  he  even  steal  a  kiss  of  a  pretty  woman,  he  thinks 
of  the  confiding  kiss  with  which  his  wife  will  stop  his  lips  when  he  tells 
her  of  it." 

I  was  surprised  to  he^-r  her  speak  so  lightly  of  a  thing  which  to  me 
appeared  so  serious ;  but  her  words  made  a  deep  impression  on  my 
mind.  I  reflected  upon  them;  I  acted  upon  them;  and  although  my 
husband  has  in  no  degree  altered  his  manners  towards  others,'  they 
have  ceased  to  be  otfensive  to  me ;  and  I  have  a  full  confidence  in  the 
assurance  he  gives  me,  tha,t  he  never  \i-as  so  truly  my  lover  as  npw,-r 
that  having  been  five  years  my  husband,  he  can  look  upon  me  as  his 
chief  source  of  happiness,  and  the  dearest  treasure  of  his  life. 

I  entreat  you,  Mr.  Indicator,  to  shew  the  mischievous  tendency  of 
this  false  maxim,  arid  to  admonish  brides  that  they  cease  to  fear,  and 
parents  to  teach,  that  a  man  once  a  husband  ceases  to  a  ^over.      A.  A. 


ON  THE  TALKING  OF  NONSENSE. 

There  is  no-greater  jnistake  in  the  world  than  the  looking  upon  every 
sort  of  nonsense  aS  want  of  sense.  Nonsense,  jn  the  bad  sense  of  the 
word,  like  certain  suspicious  ladies,  is  very  fond  of  bestowing  its  owa 
appel[ation,-rr>particularly  upon  what  renders  other  pej-sons  agreeable. 
But  nonsense,  in  the  good  sense  of  the  wprjd,  is  a  very  sensible  thing  iii 
its  st-ason  ;  and  is  only  confounded  with  ^he  other  by  people  of  a 
shallow  gravity,  who  cannot  afford  to  joke. 

These  gentlemen  live  upon  credit,  and  would  not  have  it  enquired 
into.  They  are  perpetual  beggars  of  the  question.  They  are  grave, 
not  because  they  think,  or  feel  the  contrast  of  mirth,  for  tlien  they 
would  feel  the  mirth  itself;  but  because  gravity  is  their  safest  mode  of 
behaviour.  They  must  keep  their  minds  sittiijg  still,  because  they  are 
incapable  of  a  motion  that  is  not  awkwardi  They  are  waxen  images 
among  the  li.ving; — the  deception  is  undone,  if  the  others  stir; — or 
hollow  vessels  covered  up,  which  maybe  taken  for  full  ones;— the 
collision  of  wit  jars  against  them,  and  strikes  out  their  hollowness. 

In  fact,  the  difference  between  nonsense  not  worth  talking,  and 
nonsense  worth  it,  is  si.nply  this :— the  former  is  the  result  of  a  want 
of  ideas,  the  latter  o?  a  superabundance  of  them.    Thi3  is  remarkably 


60  THE  INDICATOR. 

exemplified  by  Swift's  Polite  Conversation,  in  which  the  dialogue, 
though  intended  to  be  a  tissue  of  the  greatest  nonsense  in  request  with 
shallow  merriment,  is  in  reality  full  of  ideas,  and  many  of  them  very 
humourous;  but  then  they  are  all  common-place,  and  have  been- said 
so  often,  that  the  thing  uppermost  in  your  mind  is  the  inability  of  the 
speakers  to  utiera  sentence  of  their  own; — they  have  no  ideas  at  all. 
Many  of  the  jokes  and  similes  in  that  treatise  are  still  the  current  coin 
o.f  the  shallow;  though  they  are  now  pretty  much  confined  to  gossips 
of  an  inferior  order,  and  the  gpper  part  of  the  Ipwer  classes. 

On  the  other  hand,  the  wildest  rattling,  as  it  is  called,  in  which  men 
of  sense  find  entertainment,  consists  of  nothing  but  a  quick  and  ori- 
ginal succession  of  ideas, — a  finding,  as  it  were,  of  something  in  no- 
thing,—a  rapid  turning  of  the  hearer's  mind  to  some  new  face  of 
thought  and  sparkling  imagery.  The  man  of  shallow  gravity,  besides 
an  uneasy  half-consciousness  that  he  has  nothing  of  the  sort  about  him, 
is  too  dull  of  perception  to  see  the  delicate  links  between  one  thought 
and  another;  and  he  takes  that  for  a  mere  chaos  of  laughing  jargon, 
in  which  finer  apprehensions  perceive  as  much  delightful  association, 
as  men  of  musical  taste  do  in  the  most  tricksome  harmonies  and  accom- 
paniments of  Mozart  or  Beethoven.  Between  such  gravity  and  such 
mirth,  there  is  as  much  difference  as  between  the  driest  and  dreariest 
psalmody,  and  that  exquisite  laughing  trio, — E  voi  ridete, — which  is 
sung  in  Cosi  Fan  Tutte.  A  quaker's  coat  and  a  garden  are  not  more 
dissimilar  ; — nor  a  death-bell,  and  the  birds  after  a  sunny  shower. 

It  is  on  such  occasions  indeed  that  we  enjoy  the  perfection  of  what 
is  agreeable  in  humanity, ^ — the  harmony  of  mind  and  body, — intellect, 
and  animal  spirits.  Accordingly  the  greatest  geniuses  appear  to  have 
been  proficients  in  this  kind  of  nonsense,  and  to  have  delighted  in 
dwelling  upon  it,  and  attributing  it  to  their  favourites.  Virgil  is  no 
j.oker,  but'Homer  is :  and  there  is  the  same  difference  between  their 
Ijeroes,  /EiUeas  and  Achilles,  the  latter  i'f  whom  is  also  a  player  on  the 
harp.  Venus,  the  most  delightful  of  the  goddesses,  is  philommeitlcs, 
the  laughter-loving: — an  epithet,  by  the  bye,  which  n->ight  give  a  good- 
hint  to  a  number  of  very  respectable  ladies,  "  who  love  their  lords," 
but  who  are  too  apt  to  let  ladies  less  respectable  run  away  with  (hem. 
Horace  represents  Pleasantry  as  fluttering  about  Venus  in  company 
■jivith  Cupid, —  -- 

Quem  JbcMS  circumvolat,  el  Ciipido  ; 

and  these  are  followed  by  Youth,  the  enjoyer  of  animal  spirits,  and  by 
Mercury,  the  god  of  persuasion.  There  is  the  same  didercjuce  be- 
tween Tasso  and  Ariosto  as  between  Virgil  and  Homer ;  that  is  to 
say,  the  latter  proves  his  greater  genius  by  a  completer  and  more 
various  hold  on  the  feelings,  and  has  not  only  a  fresher  spirit  of  Nature 
about  him,  but  a  truer,  because  a  happier;  for  the  want  of  this  enjoy- 
ment is  at  once  a  defect  and  a  deterioration.  It  is  more  or  less  a 
diseas(2  of  the  blood  ;T-a  falling  off  from  tlie  pure  and  uncontradicted 
blithesomeness  of  childhood  ;  a  hampering  of  the  mind  with  the  altered 
nerves; — dust  gathered  in  the  watch,  and  perplexing  our  passing 
hours. 

It  may  be  thought  a  begging  of  the  question  to  mention  Anacreon, 
since  he  made  an  absolute  business  of  mirth  and  enjoyment,  and  sat 
dowri  systematically  to  laugh  as  well  as  to  drink.  But  on  that  very 
account,  perhaps,  his  case  is  still  more  in  point ;  and  Plato,  one  of  the 
gravestj  but  jiot  the  shallowest^  of  philosophers,  gave  him  the  title  of 


THE  INDICATOR.  «l 

the  Wise.  The  disciple  of  Socr;it(^s  appoars  aiso  to  have  been  a  great 
fiijo)  or  of  Aristophanes  ;  and  the  divine  Socrates  himself  was  a  wit 
and  a  joker. 

But  the  divine  Shakspeare  ; — the  man  to  whom  we  go  for  every  thing, 
and  are  snre  to  find  it,  grave,  melancholy,  or  merry, — what  said  he  to 
this  exquisite  kind  of  nonsense  ?  Perhaps  next  to  his  passion  for  de- 
t<?cting  nature,  and  over-ii\fornr,ing  it  with  poetry,  he  took  delight  in 
pursuing  a  joke ;  and  the  lowest  scenes  of  his  in  this  way  say  more  to 
men  whose  faculties  are  fresh  about  them,  and  who  prefer  enjoyment 
to  criticism,  than  the  most  doting  of  commentators  can  find  out.  They 
are  instances  of  his  animal  spirits, — of  his  sociality, — of  his  passion  for 
giving  and  receiving  pleasure, — of  his  enjoyment  of  something  wiser 
th;Mi  wisdom. 

The  greatest  favourites  of  Shakspeare  are  made  to  resemble  himself 
in  this  particular,  Hamlet,  Mercutio,  Touchstone,  Jaq^ues,  Richard  tin; 
Third,  and  Falstalf,  "  inimitable  Falstatf,"  are  all  men  of  wit  and 
humour,  modified  according  to  their  different  temperaments  or  circum- 
stances,— some  from  health  and  spirits,  others  from  sociality,  others 
from  a  contrast  with  their  very  melancholy.  Indeed  melancholy  itself, 
with  the  profoundest  intellects,  will  rarely  be  found  to  be  any  thing 
else  than  a  sickly  temperament,  induced  or  otherwise,  preying  in  its 
turn  upon  the  disappointed  expectation  of  pleasure, — upon  the  contra- 
diction of  hopes,  which  this  world  is  not  made  to  realize,  though  (let  us 
never  forget)  it  is  made,  as  they  themselves  prove,  to  suggest.  Some 
of  Shalvspeare's  characters,  as  Mercutio  and  Benedick,  are  almost 
entirely  made  up  of  wit  and  animal  spirits;  and  delii^htfol  fellows  they 
are  ;  and  ready,  from  their  very  taste,  to  |)erform  the  most  serious  and 
manly  offices.  Most  of  his  women  loo  have  an  abundance  of  natural 
vivacity.  Desdcmona  herself  is  so  pleasant  of  intercourst^  in  every 
way,  that  ui>on  the  principle  of  the  lespeclable  mistakes  above-men- 
lioned,  the  Moor,  when  he  grows  jealous,  is  templed  to  think  it  a 
proof  of  her  want  of  honesty.  But  we  must  make  Shakspeare  speak 
for  himself,  or  w'e  shall  not  know  how  to  be  silent  on  this  subject. 
What  a  description  is  that  which  he  gives  of  a  man  of  mirth, — of  a 
mirth  too,  which  he  has.  expressly  stated  to  be  within  the  limit  o!  what 
is  tx'coming  ?     It  is  in  Love's  Labour  Lost. 

A  merrier  man, 
Witliin  llie  limit  of  })ccominn:  niirili, 
1  never  sppiit  an  liour's  talk  wiilmll. 
His  eye  begets  occasionfor  lii^  wii: 
For  every  object  llial  tlie  one  dotli  cnti-Ii, 
'I'lie  oilier  turns  to  a  mirili-nin\  in;x  ,if>' ; 
Wliicli  his  fair  ton<iue,  conceit's  expositor. 
Delivers  in  sticli  apt  and  nracioiis  wnrrl*, 
That  aged  ears  play  truant  at  his  talcs, 
And  vouuger  hearing*  are  quite  ravished  ; 
So  sweet  and  voluble  is  his  discourse. 

We  have  been  led  into  these  reflections,  partly  to  Introduce  the 
conlusion  of  this  article, — partly  from  being  very  fond  of  a  joke  our- 
selves, and  so  making  our  self-love  as  proud  as  possible, — and  partly 
from  having  spent  some  most  agreeable  hours  (he  other  evening  with  a 
company,  the  members  of  which  had  all  the  right  to  be  grave  and  dis- 
agreeal)le  that  rank  and  talent  are  supposed  to  confer,  and  yet  from 
the  very  best  sense  or  foigetfulness  of  boti),  were  as  lively  and  enter- 
taining to  each  other  as  boys.  N<it  one  of  (hem  perhaps  but  had  his 
cares, — one  or    two,  of  no  ordinary   description;    but  what  then? 


62  TIIK  h\DlCATOR. 

These  are  t!ie  moments,  if  we  can  take  advantage  of  Ihem,  when  sor- 
rows  are  shared,  even  unconsciously ; — moments,  when  melancholy 
intermits  her  fever,  and  hope  takes  a  leap  into  enjoyment ; — when  the 
pilgrim  of  life,  if  he  cannot  lay  aside  his  burden,  forgets  it  in  meeting 
his  fellows  about  a  fountain  ;  and  soothes  his  weariness  and  his  reso- 
lution with  the  sparkling  sight,  and  the  noise  of  the  freshness. 

To  come  to  our  anticlimax,  for  such  we  are  afraid  it  must  be  called 
after  all  this  grave  sentiment  and  mention  of  authorities.  The  follow- 
ing dialogue  is  the  substance  of  a  joke  (never  meant  for  its  present 
place)  that  was  started  the  other  day  upon  a  late  publication.  The 
jjame  of  the  book  it  is  not  necessary  to  mention,  especially  as  it  was 
pronounced  to  be  one  of  the  driest  that  had  appeared  for  years.  We 
cannot  answer  for  the  sentences  being  put  to  their  proper  speakers. 
The  friends,  whom  we  value  most,  happen  to  be  great  huntersjn  this 
Avay  ;  and  the  reader  may  look  upon  the  thing  as  a  specimen  of  a  joke 
run  down,  or  of  the  sort  of  nonsense  above  mentioned  ;  so  that  he 
will  take  due  care  how  he  professes  not  to  relish  it.  We  must  also 
advertise  him,  that  a  proper  quantity  of  giggliiig  and  laughter  must  be 
supposed  to  be  interspersed,  till  towards  the  end  it  gradually  becomes 
too  great  to  go  on  with. 

A.  Did  you  ever  see  such  a  book  ? 
'    C  Never,  in  all  my  life.     Its  as  dry  as  a  chip. 

A.  As  a  chip  ?     A  chip's  a  slice  of  orange  to  it, 

15.  Ay,  or  a  wet  spunge. 

A.  Or  a  cup  iira  currant  tart. 

]J.  Ah,  ba  ;  so  it  is.     You  feel  as  if  you  were  lingering  a  brick-bat. 

A.  It  makes  you  feel  dust  in  the  eyes. 

15.  It  is  impossible  to  shed  a  tear  over  it.  The  lachrymal  organs  are 
dried  np. 

A.  If  you  shut  it  hastily,  it  is  like  clapping  together  a  pair  of  fresh- 
cleaned  gloves. 

B.  Before  you  hare  got  far  in  it,  you  get  up  to  look  at  your  tongue 
in  a  glass. 

A.  It  absolutely  makes  you  thirsty. 

B.  Yes : — if  you  take  it  up  at  bieakfast,  you  drink  four  cups  instead 
of  two. 

A.  At  page  30  yon  call  for  beer. 

B.  They  say  it  made  a  Reviewer  take  io  drinking. 

A.  They  have  it  lying  on  the  tablo  at  inns  to  make  you  drink  double. 
The  landlord  says  "  A  new  book,  Sir,"  and  goes  out  to  order  two 
neguses. 

B.  It  dries  up  every  thing  so,  it  has  ruined  the  draining  business. 

A.  There  is  an  Act  of  ]*ailiament  to  forbid  people's  passing  a  vint- 
ner's wi<h  it  in  their  pockets. 

B.  The  Dutch  subscribed  for  it  to  serve  them  instead  of  dykes. 


THE  OLD  LADY. 
If  the  Old  Lady  is  a  widow  and  lives  alone,  the  manners  of  her  con- 
dition and  time  of  life  are  so  much  the  more  apparent.  Slie  generally 
dresses  in  plain  silks  that  make  a  gentle  rustling  as  slie  moves  about 
the  silence  of  her  room  ;  and  she  wears  a  nice  cap  with  a  lace  border 
that  comes  under  the  chin.  In  a  placket  at  her  side  is  an  old  ena- 
melled watch,  unless  it  is  locked  up  in  a  drawer  of  her  toilet  for  fear 


THE  INDICATOR.  AS 

©f  accidents.  Her  waist  is  rather  tight  and  trim  than  otherwise,  as  she 
had  a  fine  one  when  young  ;  and  she  is  not  sorr)'  if  you  see  a  pair  of 
her  stockings  on  a  table,  that  you  may  be  aware  of  the  neatness  of  her 
leg  and  foot.  Contented  with  these  and  other  evident  indications  of  a 
good  shape,  and  letting  her  young  friends  understand  that  she  can 
afford  to  obscure  it  a  little,  she  wears  pockets,  and  uses  them  well  too.. 
In  the  one  is  her  handkerchief,  and  any  heavier  matter  that  is  noc 
likely  to  come  out  with  it,  such  as  the  change  of  a  sixpence; — in  the 
other  is  a  miscellaneous  assortment  consisting  of  a  pocket-book,  a 
bunch  of  keys,  a  needle-case,  a  spectacle-case,  crumbs  of  biscuit,  a 
nutmeg  and  grater,  a  smelling-bottle,  and  according  to  the  season,  au 
orange  or  apple,  which  after  many  days,  she  draws  out,  warm  and. 
glossy,  to  give  to  some  little  child  that  has  well  behaved  itself.  She 
generally  occupies  two  rooms,,  in  the  neatest  condition  possible.  la- 
the chamber  is  a  bed  with  a  white  coverlet,  built  up  high  and  round  to 
look  well,  and  with  curtaius  of  a  pastoral  pattern,  consisting  alter- 
nately of  large  plants,  and  shepherds  and  shepherdesses.  On  the 
mantle-piece  also  are  more  shepherds  and  shepherdesses,  with  dot- 
eyed  sheep  at  their  (eet^  all  in  coloured  ware,  the  man  perhaps  in  a 
pink  jacket  and  knots  of  ribbons  at  his  knees  and  shoes,  holding  his 
crook  lightly  in  one  hand,  and  with  the  other  at  his  breast  turning  his 
toes  out  and  looking  tenderly  at  the  shepherdess  : — the  woman,  hold* 
ing  a  crook  also,  and  modestly  returning  his  look,  with  a  gipsey-hat, 
jerked  up  behind,  a  very  slender  waist,  with  petticoat  and  hips  to 
counteract,  and  the  petticoat  pulled  up  through  the  pocket-holes  in 
order  to  shew  the  trimness  of  her  ancles.  But  these  patterns,  of 
course,  are  various.  The  toilet  is  ancient,  carved  at  the  edges,  and 
tied  about  with  a  snow-white  drapery  of  mu.slin.  Beside  it  are  various 
boxes,  mostly  japan ;  and  the  set  of  drawers  are  exquisite  things  for  a 
little  girl  to  rummage,  if  ever  little  girl  be  so  bold, — containing  rib- 
bons and  laces  of  various  kinds, — linen  smelling  of  lavender,  of  the 
flowers  of  which  there  is  always  dust  in  the  corners, — a  heap  of  pocket- 
books  for  a  series  of  years, — and  pieces  of  dres.s  long  gone  by,  such  as 
head-fronts,  stomachers,  and  flowered  sattin  shoes  with  enormous  heels. 
The  stock  of  letters  are  always  under  especial  lock  and  key.  So  much  for 
the  bed-room.  In  the  sitting-room,  is  rather  a  spare  assortment  of  shining 
old  mahogany  furniture,  or  carved  arm-chairs  equally  old,  with  chintz 
draperies  down  to  the  ground, — a  folding  or  other  screen  with  Chinese, 
figures,  their  round  little-eyed  meek  faces  perking  sideways  ; — a  stuffed 
bird  perhaps  in  a  glass  case  (a  living  one  is  too  much  for  her)  ; — a  por- 
trait of  her  husband  over  the  mantle-piece,  in  a  coat  with  frog-buttons, 
and  a  delicate  frilled  hand  lightly  inserted  in  the  waistcoat ; — and 
opposite  him,  on  the  wall,  is  a  piece  of  embroidered  literature,  framed 
and  glazed,  containing  some  moral  distich  or  maxim  worked  in  angular 
capital  letters,  with  two  trees  or  parrots  below  in  their  proper  colours, 
the  whole  concluding  with  an  ABC  and  numerals,  and  the  name  of  the , 
fair  industrious,  expressing  it  to  be  *'  her  work,  Jan.  14,  1762."  The 
rest  of  the  furniture  consists  of  a  looking-glass  with  carved  edges,  per- 
haps a  settee,  a  hassock  for  the  feet,  a  mat  for  the  little  dog,  and  a 
small  set  of  shelves,  in  which  are  the  Spectator  and  Guardian,  the 
Turkish  Spy,  a  Bible  and  Pray(  r-book,  Young's  Night-Thoughts,  with 
a  piece  of  lace  in  it  to  flatten,  Mrs.  Howe's  Devout  Exercises  of  the 
Heart,  Mrs.  Glasse's  Cookery,  and  perhaps  Sir  Charles  Grandison, 
and  Clarissa.    John  Buncle  is  in  the  closet  among  the  pickles  and  pre- 


<*4  THE  INDICATOR. 

srrrps,— The  dork  is  on  tho  tan(lIiig-])laco  bf^woon  (he  two  room- 
doors,  where  it  licks  audi!)ly  hut  qiiiefly  ;  and  the  l.'uiding-place,  as 
■^Vell  as  the  stairs,  'rs  rarpt'tcd  to  a  nicety.  The  house  is  most  in  cha- 
racter, and  properly  coeval,  if  it  is  in  a  retired  suburb,  and  slrongly 
Ijutlt,  with  wainscot  rather  than  paper  inside,  and  lockers  in  the  win- 
<Tows.  Ilefore  the  windows  also  should  be  some  quivering  poplar?. 
Here  the  Old  Lady  receives  a  few  quiet  visitors  io  tea  and  perhaps  an 
»>arly  game  at  cards  ;  or  you  may  sometimes  see  her  going  out  on  (he 
same  kind  of  visit  herself,  with  a  light  umbrella  turning  up  into  a  stick 
and  crooked  ivory  handle,  and  her  little  dog  equally  famous  for  his 
Jove  to  her  and  captious  antipathy  to  strangers.  Her  grandchildren 
dislike  him  on  holidays  ;  and  the  boldest  sometimes  ventures  to  give 
him  a  sly  kick  under  the  table.  When  she  returns  at  night,  she  ap- 
pears^ if  the  weather  happens  to  be  doubtful,  in  a  calash  ;  and  her 
servant,  in  pattens,  follows  lialf  beliind  and  half  at  her  side,  with  a 
lanthorn. 

Her  opinions  are  not  itiany,  nor  new.  She  thinks  the  Clergyman  a 
Jtice  man.  The  Duke  of  Wellington,  in  her  opinion,  is  a  very  great 
itian  ;  but  she  has  a  secret  preference  for  the  Marquis  of  Granby. 
She  thinks  the  young  women  of  the  present  day  too  forward,  and  the 
men  not  respectful  enough;  but  hopes  her  grandchildren  will  be 
better  ;  (hoygh  she  differs  with  her  daughter  in  several  points  respect- 
ing their  HNirkagement.  She  sets  little  value  on  the  new  accomplish- 
inents  ;  is -t great  though  delicate  connoisseur  in  butcher's  meat  and  all  . 
sort  of  housewffs.ry :  and  if  you  mention  waltzes,  expatiates  on  the 
grace  and  fine  breeding  of  (he  minuet.  She  longs  to  have  seen  one' 
danced  by  Sir  Charles  Grandison,  Avhom  she  almost  considers  as  a  real 
person.  She  likes  a  walk  of  a  summer':*  evening,  but  avoids  (he  new- 
streets,  canals,  &c.  and  sometimes  goes  through  (he  church-yard  where 
her  other  children  and  her  husband  lie  buried,  serious  but  not  melan- 
choly. She  has  had  three  great  aeras  in  her  life, — her  marriage, — her 
Iravittg  been  at  court  to  see  the  King  and  Queen  and  Royal  Family, — • 
and  a  compliment  on  her  figure  she  once  received  in  passing  from  Mr. 
Wilkes,  whom  she  describes  as  a  sad  loose  man,  but  engaging.  His 
plainness  she  thinks  much  exaggerated.  If  any  thing  takes  her  at  a 
distance  from  home,  it  is  still  the  Court;  but  she  seldom  stirs  even  for 
that.  The  last  time  but  one  that  she  went  was  to  see  the  Duke  of  Wir- 
temberg :  and  she  has  lately  been,  most  probably  for  the  last  time  of 
all,  to  see  the  Princess  Charlotte  and  Prince  Leopold.  From  this 
btatific  vision,  she  returned  with  the  same  admiration  as  ever  for  (he 
fine  comely  appearance  of  the  Duke  of  York  and  the  rest  of  the  family, 
and  great  delight  at  having  had  a  near  view  of  the  Princess,  whom  she 
speaks  of  with  smiling  pomp  and  lifted  mittens,  clasping  them  as  pas- 
sionately as  she  can  together,  and  calling  her,  in  a  sort  of  transport  of 
mixed  loyalty  and  self-love,  a  fine  royal  young  creature,  and  Daughter 
of  England. 


'rmlpcl  and  puMlsliccI  liy  Josf.ph  Ai'Pi.KVAnD,  No.  19,  Ciithcrlne-otroet,  Strand. 
Price  2d. — And  sold  nlso  l)y  A.  Gliddon,  Importer  of  Siuitfs,  No.  31,  Tiivi.st.'ck- 
strppt,  Covent-iiHrden.  Orilirs  received  al  llie  above  places,  and  by  all  Book- 
sellers and  Newsmen, 


THE    INDICATOR. 


There  he  arriving  round  about  doUi  flie, 
And  takes  survey  with  busie  curious  eye: 
Now  this,  now  that,  he  tasteth  tenderly. 

SpBNSEn. 


No.  LXL— WEDNESDAY,   DECEMBER  6th,  1820. 


BAD  TEMPER,  MEANNESS,  AND  OTHER  DISORDERS.* 

TnKRE  is  one  of  the  most  obvious  and  commonest  analogies,  to  which 
we  do  not  pay  sufficient  attention,  though  its  language  is  perpetually 
in  our  mouths. — We  mean  that  between  mind  and  body.  In  speaking 
of  these  dissimilar  but  at  the  same  time  inseparable  and  sympathizing 
moieties  of  our  nature,  we  borrovv  from  each  of  them,  and  apply  to 
both  indiscriminately,  a  set  of  phrases  and  epithets,  which  If  we  re- 
flected upon  what  we  talked,  would  be  of  infinite  service  to  us  in  thje 
treatment  of  ourselves ;  but  it  is  the  fate  of  good  phrases,  as  well  as 
good  things,  to  share  the  odium  of  common-place  in  proportion  as  their 
utility  and  popular  use  have  borne  testimony  to  their  merits ;  and  the 
common  language  of  society,  made  up  of  all  sorts  of  profound  infe- 
rences and  combinations,  would  present  to  a  being  of  a  superior  nature, 
a  curious  instance  of  a  whole  race  of  rational  animals  talkihg  like  phi- 
losophers and  thinking  like  fools.  Every  one  is  familiar  with  the 
epithets  which  mind  furnishes  to  body,  and  body  furnishes  to  mind. 
Such  and  such  a  person  is  said  to  have  a  strong  intellect, — ^his  mind  is 
well  informed,  that  is,  well  shaped  or  fashioned,— his  apprehension  has 
a  fine  tact  or  touch, — he  is  a  man  of  taste,  a  man  of  sound  thinking,  a 
man  of  parts :— then,  at  the  same  time,  his  figure  is  graceful,  his  ges- 
tures are  easy  and  unaffected,  he  has  an  intelligent  eye,  a  lively  smile,  a 
decided  but  amiable  countenance.  Donne,  who  suffers  no  such  ana- 
logies to  escape  him,  handles  this  sympathy  of  mind  and  body  with 
great  elegance,  and  carries  it  just  as  far  as  it  will  bear— a  great  piece 
of  moderation  with  him.     Speaking  of  a  lovely  female,  he  says,— 

Her  pure  and  eloquent  blood 
Shone  in  her  eliin,  and  so  distinctly  icrought. 
That  one  might  almost  say,  her  body  thought. 

*  From  a  pa p&r  of  the  Editor's  in  a  Magazine  published  in  1811,  called  the 
Reflector,  .       . 

Vol..  XL 


66  THE  INDICATOR. 

x\ccordittgly  If  the  person  above-mentioned  falls  siek,  if  his  smile 
becomes  less  lively ^  and  kis  countenance  less  animated, — if  the  body  m 
shprt  loses  its  accustomed  powers, — -the  remedy  is  immediately  sug- 
gested by  the  mind  ; — we  must  go  up  to  the  cause  of  the  disorder;  in 
doing  away  the  oause  we  do  away  the  effect;  and  this  is  the  common 
maxim  of  ph"ysieians.    But  hero  the  analogy  ceases,  or  rather  the  [)rac- 
tical  application  of  it.     In  spite  of  our  common  phrases  of  strong  mind 
and  weak  mind,  of  soutid  mind  and  diseased  miiid,  people  forget  that 
the  principle  of  bodily  cnre  is  equally  that  of  mental.     It  is  true,  they 
acknowledge  it  in  their  common  talk,  but  it  is  without  thinking.  Their 
philosophers  have  made  a  maxim  of  it,  but  their  philosophers  themselves 
have  neglected  it ;  and  while  every  body  looks  to  the  cause  of  his  bodily 
ailments,  or  calls  in  the  physician,  or  thanks  his  friend  for  giving  hiin 
advice  apon  it,  the  commonest  mental  infirmity  is  suffered  to  increase 
without  notice ;  the  clergyman,  who  is  the  constituted  doctor  on  these 
occasions,  would  think  you  mad  to  apply  to  him  on  the  subject ;  and 
the  friend  who  should  advise  you  to  think  seriously  of  the  cause  of  it, 
would  stand  a  good  chance  of  being  turned  out  of  the  house.     A  per- 
son, for  instance,  has  a  tooth-ache  or  ahead-ache,  and  he  immediately 
begins  to  consider  how  he  came  by  it :  ho  says   t,o  himself,  "  I  ha,ve 
'feeen  sitting  iri  a  draught,'^'  or  "  I  was  up  too  late  last  night,"  or''  I 
have  been  drinking  too  much.^*     Accordingly  it  is  probable  that  he 
finds  out  the  real  cause  of  his  complaint,  and  is  enabled  to  avoid  it  in 
future;  or  should  he  fail  to  discover  it  himself,  his  physician  or. his 
frierid  may  do  it  for  him.     But  let  the  same  man  get  the  temper,  or  be 
seized  with  a  fit  of  enty,  or  f?iU  into  a  habit  of  stinginess, — all  of  them 
itialadies  of  an  alarming  nature  and  a  thousand  times  more  tormenting 
than  head-aches  or  tooth-aches,— and  instead  of  searching  into  the  cause 
6f  the  dise'ase,  he  is  sure  to  begi.n  glossing  it  over  to  himself  and  enp^i;- 
*aging  its  continuance  :  the  spiritual  physician  does  not  think  of  inter- 
fering; and  friends,  who  have  been  oflicirtus  or  honest  enough  on  such 
eccasionS  to  give  advice,  have  generally  given  it  so  badly  or  found  it  so 
badly  received,  that  the  disorder  has  grown  worse  than  ever.     To 
probe  the'wpltnd  is  in  general  only  to;  Aiake  the  patient  worse.     Tell 
liim  that  his  head-ache  is  owing  to  drinking  wine,  and  he  will  agree 
■with  you  ;  but  tell  him  he  is  ill-tempered  because  somebody  brx)ke  his 
wine-glass,  and  his  sullenness  changes  into  anger.     "Ill-tempered!'* 
he  will   exclaim  ;— ^"T  ill-tempered  !  Come,  that's  excessively  ridicu^ 
IouS»     Never  was  man  of  a  better  temper  thain  myself;  but  the  fact  is^ 
it  is  on  account  of  iny  good  temper  that  I  am  so  treated. "^     So.sayiiig;-, 
he  becomes  tweptj  times  worse,  eajt's  his  wife  "  cursedly  obe^dient,'? 
kicks  a  dog  for  being  lazy  whom  he  has  taught  to  lie  on  a  cushiqn, — 
sVa'ps  his  child:for  dding  something  which  he  suffers  it  to  do  every  other 
hour'of:its  life  ;  and  woe  betide  the  servant  or  the  dependent  who  hap- 
pens to  be  in  his  reach  for  the  rest  of  the  day.     The  envious  man,  in 
like  manner,  takes'  every  possible  means  of  persuading  himself  that  in 
holding  up  everybody  as  a  fool,  coxcomb,  or  knave,  he  is  only  justi- 
fiably, seve:|e  or  aiobly  contemptuous  :  he  feels  the  torment  of  his  dis- 
Wd^T ;  he  has  no  comfort  in  w  hat  gives  pleasure  to  ather  people  j  th^ 


!5un'btiiiie  of  othcrfaccs  makes  him_  sick  ;  and  yet  iris):«a3  oflbbklng  Info 
die  cause  of  his  moiital  soreitesS,  Jie  takes  pains  to  make  it  woVse  irf 
proportion  as  it  galls  him,  and  presents  as  lamentable  a  spectacle*  as 
%mt  invalid  who  should  sit  pounding  hfs  own  Wiaises  ot  thumping  his' 
aching  head.     The  miser's  folly  we  have  beeii  accustomed  from 'oup 
iiifancy  to  hear  compared  to  a  dropsical  thirst,  which  increasesat  every 
draught ;  but  let  us  IccdR  at  the  tnoi'e  familiar  instanbfiof  \vhat  is  called 
stinginess,  or  a  habit  of 'mean  economy,  (hat  is  to  sJi'y,  an  economy  dis- 
proportionate to  the  necessity,  and  betrayrag  itself  as  much  by  what  it 
fre<'!y  offers  as  by  what  itr  niggardly  withholds.     Those  who  are  guilty 
of  this  vice  lead  a  desperate  life,  especially  if  they  ^ee  any  company. 
No  people  take  so  much  pains  to  deceive  themselves  and  others,  and 
no  pedple  succeed  #orse.     You  know  them  instantly  by  their  anxious 
parsimony  in  great  things  and  their  still  rtiore  anxious^  liberality  iii 
little.     Such  persons  will  practise  all  sorts  of  manoeuvres  to  hinder 
you  from  drinking  wine  at  cliriner,  and  beg  you  to  fall  heartily  on  the 
bread  arid  butter  at  tea.     If  there  is  the'ltast  excuse  in  the  season, 
l|tey  will  have  no  fruit  for  the  desert,  arid  be  tke  first  to  lameoit  the 
d<eficiericy,  or  to  cry  out,  with  an  air  of  sudden  recollection,  "  Bless 
rne,  I  might  ha-s^e  preserved  some  fruit,  if  I  had  thought  of  it."  If  there 
is  nosuch  excuse  in  the  season,  they  heap  the  table  with  bad  applet 
ajid  pears,  and  take  a  great  deal  of  trouble  to  assure  you  that  there  are 
no  better  to  be  had.     If  they  must  surprise  you  with  something  decent 
or  seasonable,  they  are  careful  to  have  as  small  a  quantity  as  possible  4 
and  whether  a^ccustomed  or  not  to  deny  themselves  good  things  in  pri- 
vate, they  contrive  to  make  a  merit  of  eatirig  none  of  the  salmon  pt 
the  green  peas,  and  forcing  upon  your  plate  tli'e  remaining  spoonful,. 
J3ut  at  other  times,  nothing  shocks' them  so  much  as  fhe  not  having 
enough:  to  spare  what  is  homely,  they  think,  must  betray  them  at 
,6nce ;  and  therefore,  with  lively  dehnriciations   against  pee'ple  wh0 
serve  up  small  dishes,  and  ardent  entreaties  that' you  will  do  them  t^e 
favour  of  shewing  a  good  appetite,  they  set  before  you  the  hugest  and 
coarsest  meats,  complain  all  the  time  that.you  eat  nothing,  and  finish 
the  dinner  with  a  pie  that  seems  made  for  a  set  of  paviors,  andt?iat 
almost  requires  pickaxes  to  get  at  the  fruit.     We  say  nothing  of  theii: 
more  private  anxieties— of  their  sidelong  vigilance  upon  butter  atifl 
sugar,  their  fortifications  of  pantry  and  coal-c^Hat,  their  lectures  upoA 
humility  in  generalj  apd  the  shamefulnes?  of  waste  in  particuliar,' thfe 
ngures  which  they  and  their  family  cut  on  ordinary  occasions,  or  thfe 
blaze  which  the  wife  arid  daughters  make  in  company,  contrasted  with 
the  ragged  elbows  and  sullen  yisages  of  those  who  ai'e  left  at  hbme.     ft 
IS   sufficient,  that  they  are  always  exposing  themselves  to  conteiript, 
■always  making  it  \yorse  with  their  excuses,  and  always  on  thorny  froih 
tlieir  anxiety  to  deceive  or  their  mortified  coVi^ciousriessof  not  deceiv- 
ing..   And  all,  for  wh&t  ?     What  is  the  cause  of  this  fatal  disordrt^, 
which  cuts  up  their  cofnfort  by  the  roots,  and  which  they  can  nevei^Iie 
brought  to  remedy,  mach  less  to  h.vb<v  ?     It  is  the  sMvation  of  a!'  f^W 
!sHiUings,   which  no  mote  ^la'Iic's  up  for  th^e  SEttisfActiou 'Aii'^'' t1ie  re- 
tipfectabllity  vyhich  they  io'ie  by  keeping  them -^  than  laying*  by  their 


ifj./ 


68  THE  INDICATOR. 

hats  or  gowns  could  make  up  for  the  colds  which  they  would  catch, 
or  the  ridiculous  figure  they  would  cut  in  the  streets.     Besides,  it 
13  ten  to  one  that  the  shillings  are  not  saved  after  all,  for  though 
bad  meals  may  not  be  so   heartily  eaten  as   good,  yet  the  saving 
plan  in  clothes,    furniture,  &c.    which    seduces   them    to  what   are 
called  cheap  shops,  is  found  to  be  the  most  wasteful  in  the  end ;  and 
the  use  of  bad  provisions,  bad  wine,  bid  butter,  &c.  is  most  probably 
revenged  by  a  doctor's  bill,  which  carries  away  all  the  shillings  so 
painfully  scraped  off  the  table.     Here,  then,  is  a   disorder  as  easily 
remedied  a.s  it  is  painful  to  themselves  and  disgusting  to  others  ;  but; 
give  them  a  hint  of  its  existence — insinuate  the   least  necessity  of  a 
cure, — and  you  orily  rouse  the  obstinacy  of  a  self-love,  which  from  the 
sufferings  it  persists  to  endure,  might  rather  be  called  self-hatred.   Yet 
supposing  for  an  instaint,  that  a  doctor  might  be  called  in  to  mental  as' 
well  as  corporeal  maladies,  how  entirely  would  he  act,  in  the  former 
cases,  upon  the  principle  of  remedy  in  the  latter  !     To  the  ill-tern^ 
pered  person  he  would  say,  "  Sir,  your  mind  is  subject  to  continual 
fever :  we  must  do  our  endeavours  to  make  you  cooler,  and  to  this 
end,  I  must  insist  that  you  keep  yourself  quiet.     Avoid  much  meat, 
which  fills  your  head  with  vapours,  and  much  wine,  which  sets  your 
blood  in  a  riot ;  and  when  your  system  is  brought  down  a  little,  and 
you  get  rid  of  this  tendency  to  delirium,  you  will  no  longer  turn  pale 
at  sight  of  an  ill-roasted  joint,  or  red  at  every  joke  that  is  aimed  at 
you,  or  grow  sullen  at  kindness,  or  become  enraged  at  one  that  treads 
on  your  toej  or  be  fretful  all  day  for  having  cut  yourself  while  shaving, 
or  .wreak. your  revenge  upon  objects  that  cannot  resist  you,  or  suffer  a 
pin,  a  hair»  an  inuendo,  to  make  you  wretched  for  a  week  to  come, 
or  in  short,  drive  away  all  your  friends  from  your  infirmity,  lest  they 
jshoAild  catch  the  contagion,  or  suffer  all  sorts  of  annoyances  when  you 
expose  yourself."      To  the  envious  person  he  would  say,  "  Sir  or 
JMadam,  your  perceptions  are  all  disordered,  you  are  troubled  with  a 
spleen,  which  turns' every  thing  you  hear,  see,  and  feel,  to  a  monster, 
or.a-t  Least  to  something  which  you  try  to  persuade  yourself  is  a  mon- 
«tcf.     Seek  the  society  of  your  friends,    enter  Jieartily  into  their 
amusements,  and  when  you  hear  one  of  them  say  a  good  thing,  or 
j)lay  a  good  tune,  or  receive  a  good  compliment,  try  all  you  can  to 
enjoy  it  as  well  as  the  rest.      They  will  be  surprised  ;  they  will  be- 
come as  social  with  you- as  with  others;  and  instead  of  calling  their 
faces  Ugly,  their  gestures  fantastic,  and  their  heiids  empty,  you  will 
find  them  very  well-looking,  decent,  and  sensible  people  •  or,  if  their 
qualities  should  not  amount  to  «o  much,  you  will  at  least  not  be  dis- 
gusted with  their  manners,  or  impatient. at  their  ignorance  ;  and  above 
all,  you  will  no  longer  be  subject  to  that  tinhappy  trick  of  fancj'ing 
that  in  proportion  as  your  acquaintance  appear  respectable,  you,  who 
are  their  <companion,  must  seem  ridiculous.     Thus  we  shall  remove 
your  disorder  by  going  up  to  its  cause  ;  your  blood,  which  is  inclined 
]to  become  stagnant,  will  circiilate  freely  from  yoiir  heart;  and  you 
will  shortly  get  rid  of  this  intolerable  oppression,  which  is  neither 
}npre  nor  less  than  a  waking  nightroare/'-^To  the  stingy  perspn,  the 


THE  INDICATOR.  69 

advice  would  be  short  and  simple: — "My  good  friend,  your  heart's 
blood  is  too  poor  ;  you  must  live  better  ;  I  do  not  mean  richly,  which 
is  badly  ;  but  always  have  the  best  of  what  is  necessary,  and  instead  of 
laying  by  a  few  shillings  to  be  wasted  on  the  apothecary,  or  to  purchase 
of  yourself  endless  anxieties,  throw  them  at  the  head  of  this  imaginary 
necessity  which  haunts  you,  and  which  is  a  mere  bugbear  that  destroys 
your  comfort,  and  frightens  away  your  friends."  As  to  sheer  avarice, 
it  is,  we  fear,  an  incurable  disease  :  the  mortification  has  taken  place  j 
the  heart  is  ossified  ;  and  a  general  rheumatism,  locking  up  the  facul- 
fies,  prevents  the  wretched  sufferer  from  administering  even  to  the 
common  sustenance  of  his  nature.  But  if  there  is  any  crisis  in  such 
a  malady,  at  which  the  mental  physician  could  interpose,  he  would 
say,  "  Miserable  being,  shake  off  your  lethargy  and  look  about  you. 
To  what  a  state  have  you  reduced  yourself !  Your  feelings  have  no 
play  ;  you  have  no  taste  for  a  sound  judgment :  the  eye  of  your  con- 
science never  closes.  Nothing  can  save  you  but  a  recurrence  to  the 
grand  and  simple  remedies  which  Nature  and  Reason  furnish  to  the 
uavitiated.  Your  heart  must  be  set  free;  it  is  too  much  confined  in 
that  narrow  bosom:  it  wants  air  and  exercise;  it  must  walk  abroad 
among  the  beauties  of  creation,  where  every  thing  breathes  a  glorious 
enlargement,  and  where  you  may  regain  your  spirits  for  comfort  and 
your  appetite  for  benevolence." 

But  it  is  needless  to  expatiate  on  the  obstructions  which  mental  pa- 
tients always  present  to  their  own  cure  with  a  madness  so  pertinacious. 
They  will  not  only  deny  their  disease  altogether,  but  will  swear  they 
have  not  a  symptom  of  it,  though  every  thought,  look,  and  action, 
declare  to  the  contrary.  They  are  like  vain  persons  with  shoes  too 
tight  for  their  ft  et,  who  though  galled  at  every  step,  and  rendered 
ridiculous  in  every  movement,  would  rather  die  on  the  spot  than  own 
themselves  uncomfortable.  Accordingly  they  carry  about  their  infir- 
mities with  a  gravity  so  inflexible,  that  were  we  not  convinced  of  their 
sufferings,  their  appearance  would  be  altogether  ludicrous,  especially 
if  we  personified  the  figures  they  cut  by  the  supposition  of  a  similar 
behaviour  under  bodily  afllictions.  For  instance,  the  man  of  bad 
temper  may  be  regarded  as  one  with  a  whitlow  at  the  end  of  every 
finger,  which  smarts  with  agony  at  the  slightest  touch,  and  which  he 
nevertheless  persists  in  keeping  sore.  The  envious  man  is  one  who  in 
the  height  of  a  fever  is  to  be  satisfied  with  nothing  less  than  running  his 
head  against  his  neighbour's  wall,  or  hanging  himself  upon  a  pear-tree 
that  looks  over  it,  or  getting  his  best  friend  to  beat  him  about  the  head 
and  shoulders.  The  ladies  under  this  aflliction  resemble  those  super- 
annuated gallants,  who  whenever  they  see  a  white  hand,  imagine  they 
feel  it  smacking  their  faces  or  scratching  their  eyes,  and  fall  into  an 
agony  of  admiration  at  every  beauty  that  comes  across  them, — with 
this  difference  however,  that  the  flames  and  racks,'  of  which  the  latter 
talk  so  ridiculously,  are  felt  in  all  their  misery  by  the  former,  and  the 
agony  above-mentioned  does  really  constitute  the  torment  of  their  lives. 
A  person  m  ith  mean  habits  of  saving,  who  is  continually  pinching  and 
shuffling,  is  as  stupid  as  one  who  should  cherish  an  affection  of  the 


ir6  THE  fNDICATOtt.' 

^kfn,  porpciually  if-rHatiiig  to  lumsolf  and  disgusting" to  others :''i)\ii 
ihe  confirmed  misei-  is  a  man  positively  vain  of  his  We r-,  and  Tiot  only 
So,  but  anxious  to  iticrc^ase  it  by  all  possible  iii^an$.  to' aii  iiitdterable 

bin-den.    ' -';';■-  '    '  •';; '■^"^''^;  ■  :"■;■  /;^;;;\; 

We  fdfbekf  to  follow  up  the  analogy  beyond  these  common' arid'overy 
day  maladies,  which  every  body  may  compare,  it  h  sufficient  to  know 
ttiat  there  .is  nOt  a  Single  one  of  them,  the  cure  of  which  is  out  of  our 
jlo\ter,  if  we  set  ourselves  earnesly  to  look  for  its  origin  j  bui  sucli  fs 
"the  fatality  of  human  folly,  and  so  resolute  arc  rational  beings  to  liee^ 
themselves  wretched,  thaV  they  hug  disease  to  their  hearts  wJien' they 
:4vould  shudderat  a  chilblain  or  a. cut  finger.  And  yet  If  people  would 
ieally  thifik  of  this  origiri,^if  they  would  really  exercise  their  rellec- 
lioii'  ii(lbii  the  causes  of  the  chagrins,  the.  anxieties,  the  mortifications, 
\)\c  tears,  arid  the  agofiieslhat  are  continually  arising  from  the  pettiest 
a'iid' most  despicable  tilings,  it  is  hardly  possible  but  that  many  of'tfiem 
\<'buld  Jrlter  iipon  self-irispection,  eveii  iw'^re .tkere  nothing  ino're  io  iri- 
auce  them  than  a  sense  .of  .the  ridiculous,    .,,,-,.  •    .,:,;., 

!'  M.^di(.ating  on  this  subject  th'e  other  eyening,  at  that' still  aiid  'cl?r 
tightfulliour,  wlie'n  it  is  just  too  dark  to  read  but  too  light' to  have 
candi<i£[,  we  got  into  one  of  our  usual  reveries,  and  fancied  ourselves, a 
liiiid  of  mental  doctor  above-mentioned,  whq  from  being  overwhelmed 
■with  practice  hiid  stolen  an  hour's, slumber  after  dinner.  In  the, midst 
of  our  feiljoyment,  we  thoqgbt  that  a  footman  came  abruptly  iii  to  caU 
us  to  his'maiiter,  who  li^d  been  ii;  a  dismal  way,  he  told  us,  ever  since 
ilie  preceding  mlorhiug,— 'refusing  every  kind  of  solace,  and  giving 
i^ymptoms  of  what  was  apprehended  to  be  insf^mty.  We  asked,  the 
footman  (yliathe  hud  seen  of  the  disorder  ;  and,wblle  getting  ready,  to 
ijo',  received  the  following  account :  "Sir,"  said  he,  "  T  have' always 
thought  that  my  master  was  not  quite  right;  but, for  these'two  days  Ive 
lias  been  worse  than  ever.  Siich  snapping,  and  snarling,  and  kicking 
this  thing  and  kicking  t'pthei;,  for  all  tiic  world  as  if  he  iiiad  been  bit! 
This  morning,  I  only  went  to  gVye  him- his  shoes,  which  nev^r  caa^'bo 
.jiolished  enough  to  stiit  him,  and  hekickedhisslippe'r's  oi?  In  mVface^ 
and  asked  me  whether  I  mednt'tpVuiri  him  in  blacking?'  At  din'Vy 
yesterday  he  said  that  the  sweet  wine  was  vinegar  ;  broke  one  of  tW 
tumblers  and  kicked  the  dog  under  '{he  table  for  ii;  swore  th'a^t  ilie 
iiiisfress  meant. to  provoke  him  because  she  helped'him  to  all  the  niccsj. 
bits  at  fable';  and,  smacked  my  young  lady's  cbetjk  for  going  put  of  tliQ 
Toom,  which  he  said  was  flying, in  his  facer'.  Afterwards' he  g'rcV  .i^ 
tittle  quiet,  but  nob<^dy  dared  to  come  near 'riim,'  o/^tb  look  tha.t  way^, 
or  to  make  the  least  noise,  he  was  so  touchy..    In  'in 


ichy..  'In  'the  evening  we  ha,d 
iw  pleasant  he  was,  sf 
aiid  gbbd-iVafured  to  every  oite  that  came.'.. '  Think^. I  to  myi 


company,  and  then,  Lord !  Sir,  to  see  how  pleasant  he  was,  so  smiling 
ed  to  everv  oite  that  came  r.Tbi"^s.  I  to  myself,  wiio 


rithadjnot  lasted  more  than  two  day^s,  sincq.  we  should  not  hay'^,  so 
much  '4*'^'^'*^^'  '•'  ^!^:'clng  it  up\to 'its  cause^.a's^ would' iiavebeeji  the 

alS'' wiclia  loi^i-r  durafion.     We  nroci'cdecl  as"  ta.st-jif^  po!-.siIdc  to  the 


THE  INDICATOR.  7X 

house;  dud  ongGfeHjg  hisoew  viskor,fthepafeifent  did  not  favour  l|i«l 
\vith  the  accustomed  stoik's;  he  was  aware  that  we  understood  his  ma- 
lady ;  aod  guessing  oui'.objecty  seemed  to  resign  himself  to  the  scrutiny 
with  a  kind  of  patient  impatience.  After  feeling  his  pulse,  examining 
what  muscles  had  been  most  affected  in  his  face,  and  Satisfying  ourselves 
from  those  about  him  how  he  had  passed  the  last  forty  hours,  we  were 
pretty  well  enabled  to  follow  back  the  disorder  through  its  various  ex- 
citements. He  was  at  that  moment  labouring  under  a  threat  of  disin^ 
heriling  his  son.  We  accordingly  traced  the  disorder  from  the  disiijr 
heriting  to  a  hat-box  belonging  to  the  young  gentleman,  which  happened 
to  have  falleil  in  his  way ;  from  the  hat-box  to  a  snuff-box  which  he  had 
let  fall  after  dinner ;  from  the  simff-box  to  an  uneasy  dozing  in  his  chair  ; 
from  the  dozing  in  his  chair  to  an  enormous  meal  duriijg  vfbich  he  had 
abused  all  that  he  swallowed  ;  from  the  enormous  meal  to  a  speech  m<^de=. 
by  his  wife,  who  had  kindly  begged  him  not  to  ventu  re  so  much  upon  a  dish 
that  had  disagreed  with  him ;  from  the  speech  of  his  wife  to  the  face  of  a 
servant  who  stood  near,  and->vho  appeared  to  him  to  be  laughing  in  hia 
sleeve:  from  the  servant,  after  a  number  of  petty  turns  and  stumbling 
blocks  too  numerous  for  detail,  to  the  well-blacked  shoes;  from  the  well- 
blacked  shoes  to  a  hasty  mouthful  of  hot  tea;  from  the  hasty  mouthful 
of  hot  tea  to  getting  up  late  ;  from  getting  up  late,  which  it  seems  he 
tlid  half  from  sleepiness  and  half  from  being  ashamed  to  she>v  his  face, 
to  restlessness  and  peevishness  all  night ;  from  restlessviess  and  peeyish- 
viess  all  night  to  a  hearty  supper,  which  he  abused  as  usual ;  from  the 
hearty  supper  to  another  entreaty  on  the  part  of  his  wife  : — here  we 
lost  scent  for  a  time,  for  as  the  footman  had  said,  he  had  been  uncom- 
monly pleasant  during  the  stay  of  his  company  ;  but  we  found  the  link 
again  in  the  gentleness  of  his  daughter,  who  had  left  the  room,  as  the 
footman  related  ;— from  the  gentleness  of  his  daughter,  who  w'e  found 
was  very  like  her  mother,  we  proceeded  with  our  tracing  to  the  good 
things  to  which  his  wife  had  helped  hira  at  dinner;  from  the  good 
things  to  which  his  wife  helped  him  at  dinner,  to  a  glass  which  he  broke 
in  the  middle  of  it;  from  the  broken  glass  to  an  agitation  of  nerves, 
arising  from  a  refusal  which  he  had  just  given  an  old  friend  who  wanted 
to  borrow  a  little  money  of  him  ;  from  die  refusal  given  his  old  friend 
to  the  tears  and  patience  of  his  family  all  the  morning;  from  the  tears 
and  patience  of  his  family  to  a  long  lecture  which  he  had  been  giving 
them  on  their  want  of  attachment  to  him  ;  from  the  long  lecture  he  had 
been  giving  them  to  another  sulky  and  peevish  breakfast;  from  the 
sulky  and  peevish  breakfast  to  a  private,  mysterious  lecture  given  to 
his  wife  before  he  came  down  stairs;  and,  at  lastfrom  the  private  lec- 
ture, we  came  to  the  grand  secret  of  all, — to  the  fountain  of  this  Nile 
of  tears, — to  the  immediate  cause  of  all  the  taunts,  trials,  aud  miseries 
which  a  whole  family  had  been  sufl'ering  for  two  long  days,  and  which 
nobody  but  ourselves  dared  to  mention  to  the  unhappy  being. — It  was 
A  Pin!— Our  hero  had  taken  up  the  comb  to  his  head,  when  a  pin 
which  had  unluckily  found  its  way  between  the  teeth  and  hung  ar  a 
right  angle  from  it  by  the  head,  gave  him  a  light  scratch  on  the  peri- 
cranium.   "  Zounds  !"  e.xclaimed  the  gentleman,  turning  red.    "  Bless 


n  THE  INDICATOR. 

us!"  ejaculated  the  lady,  turning  pale; — and  then  the  said  lecture 
ensued,  which  put  an  end  to  two  whole  days  of  good-humour  on  his 
part,  and  an  equal  holiday  of  comfort  on  that  of  his  household.  "■ 


%■  How  a  cure  is  to  be  brought  about  in  diseases  of  this  kind,  we  have 
not  room  to  shew  here ;  but  it  is  a  work  of  much  time  and  patience. 
The  close  of  our  dream  in  1811  was  clearly  in  the  wrong ;  for  we  fan- 
cied ourselves  effecting  it  on  the  spot.  All  we  can  say  at  present  is, 
that  the  doctor  must  take  care  he  does  not  want  curing  himself;  and 
that  the  great  art  towards  the  patient,  as  we  heard  a  friend  say  of 
peevish  children,  consists  in  reconciling  him,  not  so  much  to  others,  as 
to  himself. 


Pnnted  and  published  by  Joseph  Appletard,  No.  19,  Cal1ierine-.«treet,  Strand. 
Price  2d. — And  sold  also  by  A.  Guddon,  Importer  of  SnuffV,  No.  31,  Tavistock- 
street,  Covent-garden.  Orders  received  at  the  above  places,  and  by  all  Book- 
sellers and  Newsmen. 


THE    INDICATOR. 


•fhere  he  arriving  round  abott  {lotli  flie. 
And  takes  survey  witli  bnsie  curious  eye : 
Now  tlxis,  now  ti)at,  he.tasfeth  tenderly. 

Sfenskr. 


No.  LXU.— WEDNESDAY,   DECEMBER  l3th,  i82CJ. 


It  has  been  a  great  relief  to  us  during  our  illness  (from  \thidhj  wd 
trust,  we  are  now  recovering)  to  find  that  the  re-publication  of  Some 
former  pieces  from  other  periodical  works  has  not  been  disapproved^ 
Being  still  compelled  to  makeup  our  numbers  in  this  way,  we  have 
the  plea.sure  of  supplying  the  greater  part  of  the  present  one  with  some 
Tabl6i-Tatk,  with  which  a  friend  entertEtined  uS  oii  a  similar  occasiort 
a  few' years  ago  in  the  Examiner.  To  the  reader  who  happens  not  to 
be  acquainted  with  them  they  \yi!l  be  acceptable  for  very  obvious 
rCdsons  :  those  who  remember  them,  wrll  be  glad  to  read  them  again  ;' 
and  as  for  ourselves,  besides  the  other  reasons  for  being  gratified,  we 
feel  particular  SatisfactBon  in  recalling  to  the  author^s  memtjry  as  well 
as  our  .own,  some  genuine  morsels  of  writing  which  he  appestrS  to  have 
forgotten. — What  follows,  of  our  own,  is  from  the  work  mentioned  in 
Dur  last;  and  the  merry  letter,  in  conclusion,  is  from  an  acquaintance, 
whose  intimacy  with  the  wits  of  antiquity  does  not  hinder  him  frorai 
cracking  jokes  for  us  sickly  mod'efns.  His  jokes,  in  every  respect, 
were  never  more  in  season. 


BOOKS  WITH  ONE  IDEA  IN  THEM. 

Dull  poetry  is  to  me  far  more  oppressive  than  the  skme  quantity  of 
doHriess  in  prose.  The  act  of  stttending  to  the  metre  is  perfectly  pain-' 
fuF~where  there  is  nothing  to  repay  one  in  the  thought.  Of  heavyt 
prose  I  can  swallow  a  good  dose.  I  do  not  know  that  I  was  ever  de- 
terred from  reading  through  a  book  which  I  bad  begun j  supposing  the 
subject  to  be  to  my  mind,  except  Patrick's  Pilgrim.  The  freezing, 
appalling,' petryfying  dullness  of  that  book  is  quite  astounding.  YeK 
is  there  one  lively  image  in  the  preface,  which  an  author  ift  the  present 
day  might  comfort  himself  by  applying  to  his  review'ers  r'' If  the^ 
writer  of  these  pages  shall  chance  to  jireet  with  any  that  shall  6nly: 

Vol.  II. 


74  THE  INDICATOR. 

study  to  cavil  and  pick  a  quarrel  with  him,  he  is  prepared  beforehand 
to  take  no  notice  of  it,  nor  to  be  more  troubled  at  their  incivility, 
than  a  devout  hermit  is  at  the  ugly  faces  which  the  creatures  who 
something  resemble  men  make  at  him  as  he  is  walking  through  the  de- 
serts." An  amusing  catalogue.might  be  made  of  books  which  contain 
but  one  good  passage.  They  would  be  k  sort  of  single  speech  Hamil- 
tons  ;  if  Balaam's  palfry  might  not  be  thought  a  more  apt  counterpart 
to  them.  Killigrew's  play  of  the  Parson's  Wedding,  which  in  length 
of  massy  dullness  exceeds  many  books,  is  remarkable  for  one  little 
spark  of  liveliness.  The  languishing  fine  lady  of  the  piece  exclaims 
most  cliaracteristically,  upon  coming  in  tired  with  walking  :  "  I  am 
glad  I  am  come  home,  for  I  am  e'en  as  weary  with  this  walking.  For 
God's  sake,  whereabouts  does  the  pleasure  of  walking  lie  ?  I  swear 
I  have  often  sought  it  till  I  was  weary,,  and  yet  I  could  ne'.er  fiud  it." 
Charronon  Wisdom,  a  cumbrous  piece  of  formality,  which  Pbpe's 
eulogium  lately  betrayed  me  inta-the  perusal  of,  has  one  splendid 
passage;  page  138,  (I  think)  English  translation.  It  contrasts  the 
open  honours  with  which  we  invest  the  sword,  as  the  means  of  putting 
jnan  out  of  the  world,  with  the  concealing  and  retiring  circumstances 
that  accompany  his  introduction  into  it.  It  is  a  piece  of  gorgeous  and. 
happy  eloquence. — What  could  Pope  mean  by  that  line,—"  sage 
jy^ontaigne,  or  more  sag^  Charron  ?"  Montaigne  is  an  immense  trea'- 
sure-hou;se  of  observation,  anticipating  all  the  discoveries  of  succeed- > 
ipg  essayists.  You  cannot  dip  in  him  without  being  struck  with  the 
aphorism,  that  there  is  nothing  new  under  the  sua.  All  the  vyriters  oa. 
common  l-jfe  sincei  him,  have  done  nothing  but  echo  him.  You  cannot 
open  him  without  detecting  a  Spectator,  or  starting  a  Rambler  ;  be- 
sides that  his  own  character  pervades,  the  whole,  and  binds  it  sweetly 
together.,  Charron  is  a  mere  piece  of  formality,  scholastic  dry  bones^ 
Aj;U.bpi4t.^iB!eiW.0f.iiving,ft*sh.  • 

i(j  Jj^iir.ia) •,.:;;  vItut;  jiI;  iac 

mo«^  ni' 


GRAY'S  BARIX 


>  Thie  beard  of  Gray*s  ISard,  "  streaming  like  a  meteor,''  had  always 
struck  me  as  an  injudi'cious  imitation  of  the  Satanic  ensign  in  the 
Paradise  Lost,  which 

'  full  h'xgM  advanced, 

S-Iipne  like  a  meteor  streanving  to  ihe  wind  i 

till  the  other  day  I  met  with  a  passage  in  Ileywood's  old  play,  The 
Four  Prentices  of  London,  which  it  is  difficult  to  imagine  not  to  be 
the  origin  of  the  similitudein  botli  poets.  The  line  in  Italics  Grp.y 
has  almost  verbatim  adopted— 


THE  INDICATOR.  75 

In  Siori  towers  bangs  his  victorious  flag,  • 

Blowing  flefinnce  ibis  way ;  and  it  shews 

Like  a  red  meteor  in  the  troubled  air. 

Or  like  «  blazing  comet  ibal  forlells 

The  fall  of  princes.  ....^' >;  li.i'  i  r 

,^,. .,'  ^>  (V  ;,.!•  '  .    , 

All  here  is  noble,  and  as  it  should  be.  The  comparison  enlarges  the 
thin^  compared  without  stretching  it  upcap  a  violent  rack,  till  it  bursts 
•with  ridiculous  explosion.  The  application  of  such  gorgeous  imagery 
to  an  old  man's  beard  is  of  a  piece  with  the  Bardolfian  bombast :  "  see 
you  these  meteors,  these  exhalations  ?"  or  the  raptures  of  an  Oriential 
lover,  who  should  compare  his  mistress's  nose  to  a  watch-tower  ©r  a 
steeple.  The  presageful  nature  of  the  meteor,  which  maljies  so  fine  an 
adjunct  of  the  simile  in  Heywood,  Milton  has  judiciously  omitted,  a$ 
less  proper  to  his  purpose  ;  but  he  seems  not  to  have  overlooked  the 
beauty  of  jt,  by  his  introducing  the  superstition  in  a  succeeding  book— 

like  a  comet  burn'd. 
That  fires  tiie  length  of  Opbiuchiis  liu^e. 
In  tb'  arctic  sky,  and  rr9m  bis  horrid  haic   ' 
Sliakes  pes<il<;nce  and  war.  ■  ' 


PLAY-HOUSE  MEMORANDA. 

I  once  sat  itt  the  Pit  of  Drury-lane  Theatre  next  .to- a  ibiiird  man, 
who,  I  afterwards  learned,  was  a  street  musicicin,  well  known  about 
.London.  Tlie  play  was  Richard  the  Third,  and  it  was  curious  to  ob- 
fierve  the  interest  which  he  took  in  every  successive  scene,  so  far  more 
lively  than  could  be  perceived  in  any  of  the  company  around  him.  At 
-tbosfi  pathetic  interviews  between  the  Qaeen  and  Duchess  of  York, 
after  the  murder  of  the  children,  his  eyes  (or  rather  the  places  wherfe 
eyes  should  have  been^  gushed  oat  tears  in  torrents,  and  he  sat  in- 
tranced  inattention,  while  every  one  about  him  was  tittering,  partly  at 
him,  and  partly  at  the  grotesque  figures  and  wretched  actiort;  of  the 
-women,  who  had  been  selected  by  managerial  taste  to  personate  those 
royal  mourners-  Having  no  drawback  of  sight  to  impair  hiij  sensibi- 
ties,  he  simply  attended  to  the  scene,  and  received  its  unsophisticated 
impression.  So  much  the  rather  her  celestial  light  shone  inward,  I 
Mas  pleased  with  an  observation  which  he  made,  when  1  asked  him 
.how  he  liked  Kemble,  who  played  Richard.  I  should  have  thought 
^said  he)  that  that  man  had  been  reading  something  outof  a  book,  if  I 
had  not  known  that  I  was  in  a  play-house.  '        ,  .  v 

I  was  once  amused  in  a  diiierent  way  by  a  ktiot  of  country  people 
who  had  come  to  see  a  play  at  that  same  Theatre.  They  seemed  per- 
fectly inattentive  to  all  the  best  performers  for  the  first  actor  two, 
though  the  piece  wa.-j  admir<ably  played,  but  kept  poring  iu  the  play- 
bil!,  and  were  evidently  .watching  foF  the  appearance  of  one,  who  was 


76  THE  INDICATOR. 

to  be  the  source  of  supreme  delight  to  them  that  night.  At  length  the 
expected  actor  arrived,  who  happened  to  be  in  posiession  of  a  very  in- 
Bignificant  part,  not  much  above  a  mule.  I  saw^  their  faint  attempt  at 
raising  a  clap  on  his  appearance,  and  their  disappointment  at  not  being 
jseconded  by  the  audience  in  general.  I  saw  them  try  to  admire  and. 
to  find  out  something  very  Y^onderful  in  him,  and  wondering  all  the 
while  at  the  moderate  sensation  he  produced.  I  saw  their  pleasure 
;and.th.eir  interest  subside  at  last  into  flat  mortificatiouj  when  the  riddle 
was  at  once  unfolded  by  my  recollecting  that  this  performer  bore  the 
same  name  with  an  actor,  then  iii  the  acme  of  his  celebrity,  at  Covent- 
Garden,  but  who  lately  finished  his  theatrical  and  mortal  career  on 
the  other  side  the  Atlantic.  They  had  come  to  see  Mr.  C— ^ — ,  but 
Jiad  come  to  the  wrong  house. 

.  Is  it  a  stale  remark  to  say,  that  I  have  constantly  found  the  interest 
excited  at  a  play-house  to  bear  an  exact  inverse  proportion  to  the 
price  paid  for  admission.  Formerly,  when  my  sight  and  hearing  were 
more  perfect,  and  my  purse  a  little  less  so,  I  was  a  frequenter  of  the 
upper  gallery  in  the  old  Theatres.  The  eager  attention,  the  breathless 
listening,  the  anxiety  not  to  lose  a  word,  the  quick  anticipation  of  the 
significance  of  the  scene,  (every  sense  kept  as  it  were  upon  a  sharp" 
look  out),  which  are  exhibited  by  the  occupiers  of  those  higher  and 
now  almost  out.of-sight  regions  (who,  going  seldom  to  a  play,  cannot 
afford  to  lose  any  thing  by  inattention),  suffer  some  little  diminution, 
as  you  descend  to  the  lower  or  two-shilling  ranks  ;  but  still  the  joy  is 
lively  and  unallayed,  save  by  some  little  incursion  of  manners,  the  ex- 
pression of  it  is  expected  to  abate  somewhat  of  its  natural  liveliness. 
The  oaken  plaudits  of  the  trunk-maker  would  here  be  considered  as 
going  a  little  beyond  the  line.— In  the  pit  first  begins  that  accursed 
critical  faculty,  which,  making  a  man  the  judge  of  his  own  pleasures, 
too  often  constitutes  him  the  executioner  of  his  own  and  others !  You 
may  see  the  jealousy  of  being  unduly  pleased,  the  suspicion  of  being 
, taken  in  to  admire  ;  in  short,  the  vile  critical  spirit,  cret^ping  and  dif- 
fusing itself,  and  spreading  from  the  wrinkled  brows  and  cloudy  eyes 
■of  the  front  row  sages  and  newspaper  reporters  (its  proper  residence), 
till  it  infects  and  clouds  over  the  thoughtless,  vacant  countenance,  of 
John  Bull,  tradesmen,  and  clerks  of  counting-houses,  who,  but  for 
that  approximation,  would  have  been  contented  to  have  grinned  with- 
out rule,  and  to  have  been  pleased  without  asking  why.  The  sitting 
next  a  critic  is  contagious.  Still  now  and  then,  a  genuine  spectator  is 
to  be  found  among  them,  a  shopkeeper  and  his  family,  whose  honest 
titillations  of  mirth,  and  generous  chucklings  of  applause,  cannot  wait 
or  be  at  leisure  to  take  the  cue  from  the  sour  judging  faces  about  them. 
Haply  they  never  dreamed  that  there  were  such  animals  in  nature  as 
critics  or  reviewers  ;  even  the  idea  of  an  author  may  be  a  speculation 
they  never  entered  into;  but  they  take  the  mirth  they  find  as  a  pure 
effusion  of  the  actor-folks,  set  there  on  purpose  to  make  them  fun.  I 
love  the  unenquiring  gratitude  of  such  spectators.  As  for  the  Boxes, 
I  never  can  understand  what  brings  the  people  there.  I  see  such 
frigid  indifference,  such  unconcerned  spectatorship,  such  impeuctra- 


THE  INDICATOR.  77 

liillty  to  ploasare  or  its  contrary,  such  being  in  tho  hoose  and  yet  not 
of  itj  certainly  they  come  far  nearer  the  nature  of  the  Gods,  upon  the 
.system  of  Lucretius  at  least,  than  those  hone.st,  hearty,  m' ell-pleased, 
unindifferent  mortals  above,  who,  from  time  immemorial,  have  had. 
that  name,  upon  no  other  ground  than  situation,  assigned  them. 

Take  the  play-house  altogether,  there  is  a  less  sum  of  enjoyment  than 
used  to  be.  Formerly  you  might  see  something  like  the  effect  of  no- 
velty upon  a  citizen,  his  wife  and  daughters^  in  the  Pit ;  their  curiosity 
upon  every  new  face  that  entered  upon  the  stage.  The  talk  of  how 
they  got  in  at  the  door,  and  how  they  were  crowded  upon  some  former 
occasion,  made  a  topic  till  the  curtain  drew  up.  People  go  too 
ofren  now-a-days  to  make  their  ingress  or  egress  of  consequence. 
Children  of  seven  years  of  age  will  talk  as  familiarly  of  the  performers, 
aye  and  as  knowingly  (according  to  the  received  opinion)  as  grown 
persons:  more  than  the  grown  persons  in  my  time.  Oh  when  shall  I 
forget  first  seeing  a  play,  at  the  age  of  five  or  six  ?  It  was  Artaxerxes. 
Who  played,  or  who  sang  in  it,  I  know  not.  Such  low  ideas  as  actors* 
naihws,  or  actors'  merits,  never  entered  my  head.  The  mystery  of 
delight  was  not  cut  open  and  dissipated  for  me  by  those  who  took  me 
there.  It  was  Artaxerxes  and  Arbaces  and  Mandane  that  I  saw^  not 
Mr.  Beard,  or  Mr.  Leoni,  or  Mrs.  Kennedy.  It  was  all  enchantment 
and  a  dream.  No  such  pleasure  has  since  visited  me  but  in  dreams. 
I  was  in  Persia  for  the  time,  and  the  burning  idol  of  their  devotion  in 
the  Temple  almost  converted  me  into  a  worshipper.  I  was  awe-struck, 
and  believed  those  significations  to  be  something  more  than  elemental 
fires.  I  was,  with  Uriel,  in  the  body  of  the  sun. —  What  should  I  have 
gained  by  knowing  (as  I  should  have  done,  had  I  been  born  thirty 
years  later)  that  that  solar  representation  was  a  mere  painted  scene, 
that  had  nt-ither  fire  nor  light  in  itself,  and  that  the  royal  phantoms, 
which  passed  in  review  before  me,  were  but  such  common  mortals  as 
I  (%uld  see  every  day  out  of  my  father's  window  ?  We  crush  the  fa- 
culty of  delight  and  wonder  in  children,  by  explaining  every  thing. 
We  take  them  to  the  source  of  the  Nii<','  and  shew  them  the  scanty 
runnings,  instead  of  lotting  the  beginnings  of  that  sevenfold  stream 
remain  in  impenetrable  darkness,  a  mysterious  question  of  wonderment 
and  delight  to  ages. 


THE  TRUE  ENJOYMENT  OF  SPLENDOUR, 

:  A    CHINESE   APOLOGUE.  / 

Doubtless,  saith  the  illustrious  Me,  he  that  gaineth  much  possession 
hath  need  of  the  wrists  of  Ilong  and  the  seriousness  of  Shan-Fee,  since 
palaces  are  not  built  with  a  teaspoon,  nor  are  to  be  kept  by  one  who 
runneth  after  butterflies.     But  above  all  it  is  necessary  that  he  who 


78  THE  INDICATOR. 

carrieth  a  great  burden,  whether  of  gold  or  silver,  should  hold  his  head 
as  lowly  as  is  necessary,  lest  on  lifting  it  on  high  he  bring  his  treasure 
to  nought,  and  lose  with  the  spectators  the  glory  of  true  gravity^  which 
is  meekness.  ■■<(  .h-'ir-r 

Quo,  who  was  the  son  of  Quee,  who  was  the  son  of  Quee-Fong,  who 
Avas  the  five  hundred  and  fiftieth  in  Tmeal  descent  from  the  ever-to-be- 
remembered  Fing,  chief  minister  of  the  Emperor  Yau,  one  day  walked 
out  into  the  streets  of  Pekin  in  all  the  lustre  of  his  rank.    Quo,  besides 
the  greatness  of  his  birth  and  the  multitude  of  his  accomplishments, 
was  a  courtier  of  the  first  order,  and  his  pigtail  was  proportionate  to 
his  merits,  for  it  hung  down  to  the  ground  and  kissed  the  dust  as  it 
.went  with  its  bunch  of  artificial  roses.     Ten  huge  and  sparkling  rings, 
which  encrusted  his  hands  with  diamonds,  and  almost  rivalled  the  sun 
that  struck  on  them,  led  the  ravished  eyes  of  the  beholders  to  the  more 
precious  enormity  of  his  nails,  which  were  each  an  inch  long,  and  by 
.proper  nibbing  might  have  taught  the  barbarians  of  the  West  to  look 
with  just  scorn  on  their  many- writing  machines.     But  even  theseo*«re 
'  nothing  to  the  precious  stones  that  covered  him  from  head  twfoot. 
•His  bonnet,  in  which  a  peacock's  feather  was  stuck  in  a  most  engaging 
manner,  was  surmounted  by  a  sapphire  of  at  least  the  size  of  a  pigeon's 
iegg;  his  shoulders  and  sides  sustained  a  real  burden  of  treasure  ;  and 
.as  he  was  one  of  the  handsomest  men  at  court,  being  exceedingly  cor- 
pulent,  and  indeed,  as  his  flatterers  gave  out,  hardly  able  to  walk,  it 
may  be  imagined  that  he  proceeded  at  no  undignified  pace.     He  would 
;liave  ridden  in  ^nis  sedan,  had  he  been  lighter  of  body,  but  so  much 
unaffected  corpulence  was  not  to  be  concealed,  and  he  went  on  foot 
that  nobody  miglit  suspect  him  of  pretending  to  a  dignity  he  did  not 
, possess.     Behind  him,  three  servants  attended,  clad  in  the  most  gor- 
,geous  silks;  the  middle  one  held  his  umbrella  over  his  head;  he  on  the 
right  bore  a  fan  of  ivory,  whereon  were  carved  the  exploits  of  Whay- 
-Quang;  and  he  on  the  left,  sustained  a  purple  bag  on  each  arm,  one 
.  containing  opium  and  Areca-nut,  the  other  the  ravishing  preparation 
of  Gin-Seng,  which  possess^'S   the  Five  Relishes.      All  the  servants 
looked  the  same  way  as  their  master,  that  is  to  say,  straight  forward, 
with  their  eyes  majestically  half-shut,  only  they  cried  every  now  and 
then  with  a  loud  voice,—"  Vani.sh  from  before  the  illustrious  Quo, 
favourite  of  the  mighty  Brother  of  the  Sun  and  Moon." 

Though  the  favourite  looked  neither  to  the  right  nor  to  the  left,  he 
could  not  but  perceive  the  great  homage  that  was  paid  him  as  well  by 
the  faces  as  the  voices  of  the  multitude.  But  one  person,  a  Boiiz*", 
seemed  transported  beyond  all  the  rest  with  an  enthusiasm  of  admira- 
tion, and  followed  at  a  respectful  distance  from  his  side,  bowing  to  the 
earth  at  every  ten  paces  and  exclaiming,  "  Thanks  to  my  lord  for  his 
jewels!"  After  repeating  this  for  about  si.t  times,  he  encreased  the 
expressions  of  his  gratitude,  and  said,  "  Thanks  to  my  illustrious  lord 
from  his  poor  servant  for  his  glorious  jewels," — ^^and  then  again, 
"  Thanks  to  my  illustrious  lord,  whose  eye  knoweth  not  degradation, 
from  his  poor  servant,  who  is  not  fit  to  exist  before  him,  for  his  jewels 
that  make  the  rays  of  the  sun  look  like. ink."     lu  short,  the  mau'^ 


THE  INDICATOR.  79 

gratitude  was  so  great,  and  its  language  delivered  in  phrases  so  choice, 
that  Quo  could  contain  his  curiosity  no  longer,  and  turning  aside, 
demanded  to  know  his  meaning :  "  I  have  not  given  you  the  jewels," 
said  the  faTOurite^  "  and  why  should  you  thank  me  for  them  ?" 

"  Refulgent  Quo  1"  answered  the  Bonze,  again  bowing  to  the  earth, 
*'  what  you  say  is  as  true  as  the  five  maxims  of  Fo,  who  was  born  with- 
out a  father  : — but  your  slave  repeats  his  thanks,  and  is  indeed  infi- 
nitely obliged.  You  must  know,  O  dazzling  stja  of  Quee,  that  of  all 
my  sect  I  have  perhaps  the  greatest  taste  for  enjoying  myself.  Seeing 
my  lord  therefore  go  by,  I  could  not  but  be  transported  at  having  so 
great  a  pleasure,  and  said  to  myself,  '  The  great  Quo  is  very  kind  to 
me  and  my  fellow-citizens  :  he  has  taken  infinite  labour  to  acquire  his 
magnificence;  he  takes  siill  greater  pains  to  preserve  it,  and  all  thp, 
while,  I,  who  am  lying  under  a  shed,  enjoy  it  for  nothing.'  "        ,        ,  ; 

A  hundred  years  after,  when*  the  Emperor  Whang  heard  this  story, 
he  diminished  the  expenditure  of  his  household  one  half,,  aud  ordered 
the  dead  Bonze  to  be  raised  to  the  rank  of  a  Colao.   .,.;,   , .-  - 


ON  THE  TAUaXG  OF  NONSENSE. 

Mr. Indicator, — What!  and  do  you  really  mean  to  say  that  this, 
at  page  62,  No.  60,  is  "  a  specimen  of  a  joke  run  down  ?''  For  "  run 
down,"  read  "  wound  up."  There  are  limits  to  human  wisdom,  but 
none  to  folly.  Hercules  might  come  to  a  stand  still,  but  our  merry 
friend  with  the  bauble  was  never  lieard  to  exclaim  ne  plus  ultra.  After 
reading  your  pleasant  article  in  our  coterie  the  other  evening,  we  took 
down  "  the  book"  you  allude  to,  (it  gets  into  most  libraries  ©f  any 
size),  and  it  quickly  inspired  us  with  the  following  dry  jokes: — 

A.  Et  certamen  crat,  Corydon  com  Thyrside,  magnum, — Post- 
habui — — seria  ludo.  AUons.  I  know  an  infant  who,  on  in erely  see- 
ing it,  was  cured  of  water  in  the  head.  >  . 

B.  A  dropsical  gentlema'n  given  over  by  his  physicians  was -Tievcr 
tapped  again,  after  he  had  read  it. 

A.  Carry  a  copy  under  your  arm,  and  you  need  no  umbrella, 

B.  A  number  were  sent  over  to  Ireland,  just  at  the  time  they  had 
almost  abandoned  the  idea  of  reclaiming  bogs. 

C.  A  friend  of  mine  on  the  coast  has  recovered  ninety  acres  of  land 
from  the  sea,  by  possessing  a  copy.     He  calls  it  his  Copyhold  land. 

A.  Southey  tells  me,  that  Kehama  had  one  in  his  pocket  when  he 
walked  into  the  ocean,  and  it  divided. 

B.  W^hen  I  travel,  I  always  take  it  to  read  in  bed  ;  and  though  I 
never  use  a  warming  pan,  I  never  had  the  rheumatism  in  my  life. 

A.  It  must  be  a  very  ancient  work,  for  we  owe  to  it  the  origin  of 
the  terms  "  dry  study,"  "  dry  reading,"  &;c. 


80  TftE  mDICATOR. 

C.  ti  IS  not  generally  known,  but  the  conjurer  rubs  himself  wkh  H^ 
before  he  dips  his  arm  in  boiling  water. 

B.  Some  orte  swearing,  kissed  it  in  jest,  which  brought  ©n  the  com- 
plaint of  parched  lips.  Feeling  this,  he  threw  it  down,  and  ti-ampling; 
on  it,  \vas  lakt  up  with  chilblains. 

C.  It  is  an  excellent  substitute  in  bathing  for  an  oil-skin  cap. 

•  Ai  It  is  said  to  be  very  superior  in  efficacy  tc^^'a  devil'd  biscuit, 

I>.  It  is  found  in  moi5t  libraries,  whfch  occasio-ns  such  an  accumula-*' 
tion  of  dust  in  those  places.  '  .'...'.  r 

B.  A  nurse,  who  took  it  up  by  accid^Ht,"  was  obliged  to  wean  thet 
Child  directly.  '      '  •  '  ■  :,      ■ 

D.  A  widow  that  I  know,  after  burying  her  hasbandy  retired  to  hM" 
closet,  and  having  read  a:  page,  tievef  shed  another  t^r.  This  may; 
be  considered  its  greatest  miracle!  :/ 

C.  Its  author,  who  is  said  to  have  run  tndd  durittg  the  dogf-clays, 
•wrote  it  on  the  sands  of  Africa,  from  whence  rt  was  brought  to  this' 
quarter  of  the  globe  by  means  of  the  Sirocco.  "  Nil  dictum,  quod  i\ow 
dictum  prius,"  is,  as  you  now  see,  a  mighty  foolish  maxim  ;  and,  as  a 
foolish  bit  of  Latin  makes  a  very  appropriate  conclusion  to  the  English 
that  precedes  it, 

"  Vivas  in  amore  jocisque — 
Vive  vale.*" 

*  * 

*  Live  and  presprve  your  health  for  other  follcs, 
.  ,     .    ,,  Aiv,cl  don't  forget  to  love,  and  cracH  your  lokes. 


t'riated  and  published  by  Joseph  Appleyard,  No.  19,  Catbcrine-streef,  S.frand, 
■   Price  2d.— 'And  sold  also  by  A.  GciOdon,  Importer  «)4"  Snuffs,  No.  3l,-TsrvwjM'T:i 
street,  Covent-p;arden.     Orders  received  at  tiie  above  places,  and'jby.ia^l.Hooid' 
•:  ei^Uersaivd  NeWsrtieiu  o.u  /     .' 


«<(.»>  «  4.-. 


THE    INDICATOR. 


There  he  arriving  round  about  dofti  flie. 
And  takes  survey  with  busie  curious  eye: 
Now  this,  no^  that,  he  tasteth.teiijterly.-  ' 

*     .  SPBNSBn. 


No.  LXIIL— WEDNESDAY,  DECJEMBER  20th,  1820. 


The  author-  of  the  Table-Talk  in  our  last  has  obliged  us  with  the 
following  pungent  oiorsels  of  Sir  Thomas  More,— devils,  we  may  call 
thein.  Brantome,  noticing  the  oaMis  of  some  envnent  Christian  man- 
^skyers,  .and  itffp^ming  us  that  ",the  good  man.  Monsieur  de  la  Roche 
du  Jj^aine,  swore  hy  '  God's  head  full  of  relics,'  "  adds  In  a  pareQ- 
thesis,—"  Where  the  devil  did  he  get  that  ?" — "  Ou  diable  avbit-il 
ti^ouve  celuy-la  ?"  We  may  apply  this  vivacious  mode  of  questioning, 
with  A  more  cfilical  propriety,  to  these  eminent  Chiistian  ^pposers  of 
reformation,  past,  present,  and  to  come,  and  ask  them,  where  fKe 
devil  they  get  a  notion  that  they  are  on  the  side  of  charity  ?  It  is  pos- 
sijble  to  hate  for  the  sake  of  a  loving  theory ;  but  it  is  a  dangerous 
piece  of  self-flattery ,  and  more  likely  to  spring  up  in  hating  than  loving 
minds.  If  it  partakes  of  the  reverent  privileges  of  sorrow  in  those 
who  are  unsuccessful  or  oppressed,  it  is  odious  in  those  who  are  flou- 
rishing, and  we  are  afraid  is  nothing  but  sheer  dogmatism  and  tyranny 
even  in  men  as  great  as  Sir  Thomas  IVlore. 

We  return  our  thanks  to  C.  W.  for  the  amusement  as  well  as  as- 
sistance which  his  pursuit  of  the  dry  joke  .has  aff"orded  us.  It  Is  very- 
pleasant,  circumstantial,  and  outrageouft.  We  have  particular  satifi- 
faction  in  drinking  his  health  after  it,  especially  if  he  has  been  an  in- 
valid like  ourselves,  as  from  his  signature  we  are  inclined  to  suspect. 
We  hope  to  resume  our  work  ia  a  week  or  two. 


SIR  THOMAS  MORE. 

Of  the  writings  of  this  distinguished  character  little  is  remembered 
at  present  beyond  his  Etdopia,  and  some ,  Epigrams.  But  there  is 
extant  a  massive  folio  of  his  Theological  Works  in  English,  partly 
Practical  Divinity,  but  for  the  greater  part  Polemis,  against  the  grand 
Lutheran  Heresy,  just  then  begianing  to  flower.    From  thes^  I  many 

Vol.  II. 


82  THE  INDICATOR. 

years  ago  made  some  extracts,  rejecting  only  the  antiquated  ortho- 
graphy,  (they  being  intended  only  for  my  own  amusement)  except  in 
some  instances  of  proper  names,  &c.  I  send  them  you  as  I  find  them, 
thinking  that  some  of  your  readers  may  consider  them  as  curious.  The 
first  is  from  a  Tract  against  Tyndale,  called  Ihe  Confutation  of  Tyn- 
daWs  Answer.*  The  author*  of  Religio  Medici  somewhere  says, 
*'  his  conscience  would  give  him  the  lye,  if  she  should  say  that  he  abso> 
lutely  detested  or  hated-  any  essence  but  the  Devil."  WhetHer 
Browne  was  not  out  in  his  metaphysics^  when  he  supposed  himself 
capable  of  hating,  that  is,  entertaining  a  personal  aversion  to,  a  being 
so  abstracted,  or  such  a  Concrete  of  all  irreconcileable  abstractions 
rather,  as  usually  passes  for  the  meaning  of  that  name,  I  contend  not ; 
but  that  the  same  hatred  in  kind,  which  he  professed  against  our  great 
spiritual  enemy,  was  in  downright  earnest  cultivated  and  defended  by 
More  against  that  portentous  phenomenon  in  those  times,  a.  Heretic, 
from  his  speeches  against  Luther  and  Tyndale  cannot  for  a  moment  be 
doubted.  His  account  of  poor  Hytton  which  follows  (a  reformado 
priest  of  the  day)  is  penned  with  a  wit  and  malice  hyper-satanic.  It  Vs 
infinitely  diverting  in  the  midst  of  its  diabolism,  if  it  be  not  rather, 
what  Coleridge  calls, 

Too  vyicked  fona  smile,  too  foolish  for  a  tear. 

-"•  >^  now  to  thfe  intent  that  ye  may  somewhat  see  what  good  Chris- 
tian faith  Sir  Thomas  Hytton  was  of,  this  new  saint  of  Tindale's  cano- 
nization, in  whose  burning  Tindale  so  gaily  glorietb,  and  which  hath 
liis  holiday  so  now  appointed  to  him,  that  St.  Polycarpus  must  give 
iiim  place  in  the  Calendar,  I  shall  somewhat  show  you  what  whole- 
some heresies  this  holy  martyr  held.  First  ye  shall  understand,  that 
he  was  a  priest,  and  falling  to  Luther's  sect,  and  after  that  to  the  sect 
of  Friar  Husldn  and  Zwinglius,  cast  off  matins  and  mass,  and  all 
divine  service,  and  so  became  an  apostle,  sent  to  and  fro,  between  our 
English  heretics  beyond  the  sea,  and  such  as  were  here  at  home.  Now 
happed  it  so,  that  after  he  had  visited  here  his  holy  congregations  ia 
diver's  corners  and  Iqskes  lanes,  and  comforted  them  in  the  Lord  to 
Stand  fttiff  with  the  devil  in  their  errors  and  heresies,  as  he  was  going 
back  again  at  Gravesend,  God  considering  the  great  labour  that  he  hud 
taken  already,  and  determining  to  bring  his  business  to  his  well-deserved  end, 
gave  him  suddenly  such  a  favour  and  so  great  a  grace  in  the  visage,  that  evevy 
man  that  beheld  him  took  him  for  a  thief.  For  w'hereas  there  had  been 
certain  linen  clothes  pilfered  away  that  were  hanging  on  an  hedge,  and 
Sir  Thomas  Hitton  was  walking  not  far  off  siuspiciously  in  the  meditation 
of  his  hei'esies :  the  people  doubting  that  the  beggarly  knave  had  stolen 
the  clouts,  fell  in  question  with  him  and  searched  him,  and  so  found 
they  certain  letters  secretly  conveyed  in  his  coat,  written  from  evan- 
gelical brethren  here  nfnto  the  evangelical  heretics  beyond  the  sea. 
And  upon  those  letters  founden,  he  was  with  his  letters  brought  be- 
fore the 'inost  5lev.  Father  in  God  the  Archbishop  of  Canterbury,  and 

-*  To  some  foregone  Tract  of  More's,  of  which  I  have  lost  (he  title. 


THE  INDICATOR.  39 

afterward  as  well  by  his  Lordship  as  by  the  Rev.  Father  the  Bishop  oiE 
Rochester  examined,  and  after  for  his  abominable  heresies  delivered 
to  the  secular  hands  and  burned." 

What  follows  (from  the  same  Tract)  is  mildened  a  little  by  the  intro- 
duction of  the  name  of  Erasmus,  More's  intimate  friend ;  though  by 
the  sting  in  the  rear  of  it,  it  is  easy  to  see,  that  it  was  to  a  little  tem- 
porising only,  and  to  some  thin  politic  partitions  from  these  Reformers, 
that  Erasmus  owed  his  exemption  from  the  bitter  anathemas  More 
had  in  store  for  them.  The  love  almost  make  the  hate  more  shocking 
by  the  contrast ! 

— "  Then  he  (Tyndale)  asketh  me  why  I  have  not  con- 
tended with  Erasmus,  whom  he  calleth  my  "darling,  of  all  this  long 
while,  for  translating  of  this  word  eccksia  into  this  word  co^igre^ 
gatio.  And  then  he  cometh  forth  with  his  feat  proper  taunt,  that  I 
favour  him  of  likelihood  for  making  of  his  Book  of  Moria  in  my 
house.  There  had  he  hit  me,  lo  i  save  for  lack  of  a  little  salt.  I  have 
not  contended  with  Erasmus  my  darling,  because  I  found  no  such* 
malicious  intent  with  Erasmus  my  darling,  as  I  find  with  Tyndale, 
For  had  I  found  with  Erasmus  my  darling  the  shrewd  intent  and  pur- 
pose, that  I  find  in  Tyndale,  Erasmus  my  darling  should  be  no  more 
my  darling.  But  I  find  in  Erasmus  my  darling,  that  he  detesteth  and 
abhorreth  the  errors  and  heresies,  that  Tyndale  plainly  teacheth  and 
abideth  by,  and  therefore  Erasmus  ray  darling  shall  be  my  dear  dar- 
ling still.  And  surely  if  Tyndale  had  either  never  taught  them,  or  yet 
had  the  grace  to  revoke  them,  then  should  Tyndale  be  my  dear  darling 
too.  But  while  he  holdeth  such  heresies  still,  I  cannot  take  for  my 
darling  him  that  the  devil  taketh  for  his  darling.?' 

The  next  extract  is  from  a  "  Dialogue  concerning  Heresies,"  and 
iias  always  struck  me  as  a  master-piece  of  eloquent  logic,  and  some- 
thing in  the  manner  of  Burke,  when  he  is  stripping  a  sophisnNso^j/u'sfi- 
eally;  as  he  treats  Paine,  and  others  passim. 

— 1 — "  And  not  to  be  of  the  foolish  mirtd  that  Luther  is,  which 
■wished  in  a  sermon  of  his,  that  he  had  in  his  hand  all  the  pieces  of  the 
iioly  cross,  and  saith  that,  if  he  so  had,  lie  would  thrown  them  there 
}X§  never  sua  should  shfoe  on  them.  And  for  what  worshipful  reasou 
would  the  wretch  do  such  villainy  to  the  cro^s  of  Christ?  beqause,  as 
he  saith,  that  there  is  so  much  gold  hqw  bestowed  about  the  garnishing 
of  the  pieces  of  the  cross,  that  there  is  none  left  for  poor  folk.  Is  not 
this  an  high  reason  ?  as  though  all  the  gold,  that  is  now  bestowed  about 
the  pieces  of  the  holy  cross,  would  not  have  failed  to  have  been  given 
to  poor  men,  if  they  had  not  been  bestowed  about  the  garnishing  of  the 
cross.  And  as  though  there  were  nothing  lost,  but  that  is  be&towed| 
about  Christ's  cross/  Take  all  the  gold,  that  is  spent  about  all  the 
pieces  of  Christ's  cross  through  Christendom  (albeit  many  a  good 
Christen  prince,  and  other  goodly  people,  hath  honourably  garnished 
many  pieces  thereof),  yet,  if  all  the  gold  were  gathered  together,  it 
W.ould  appear  a  poor  portion,  in  comparison  of  the  gold  th^t  is  be- 


84  THE  INDICATOR. 

slowed  upoB  cups.  What  speak  we  of  cups?  in  which  the  gold, 
albeit  that  it  be  not  given  to  poor  men,  yet  is  it  sared,  and  may  be 
given  in  alms  when  men  will,  which  they  never  vnll;  how  small  a  por- 
tion, ween  we,  were  the  gold  about  all  the  pieces  of  Christ's  cross,  if 
it  were  compared  with  the  gold  that  is  quite  cast  away  about  the  gilting 
of  knives,  swords,  spurs,  arras,  and  painted  clothes  :  and  (as  though 
these  things  could  not  consume  gold  fast  enough)  the  gilting  of  posts, 
and  whole  roofe,  not  only  in  palaces  of  princes  and  great  prelates,  but 
also  many  right  mean  men's  houses.  And  yet,  among  all  these  things, 
could  Luther  spy  no  gold  that  grievously  glittered  in  his  bleared  eyes,  but 
only  about  th«.  cross  of  Christ. — For  that  gold,  if  it  were  thence,  the 
wise  man  weeneth,  it  would  be  strait  given  to  poor  men,  and  that  wher« 
he  daily  see'th,  that  such  as  have  their  purse  full  of  gold,  give  to  the 
poor  not  one  piece  thereof;  but,  if  they  give  ought,  they  ransack  the 
bottom  among  all  the  gold,  to  seek  out  here  an  halfpenny,  or  in  his 
coimtry  a  brass  penny  whereof  four  make  a  farthing  :  su^  goodly  catises 
find  they^  that  pretend  holiness  for  the  colour  of  their  cloaked  heresies.^* 

I  subjoin  from  the  same  "  Dialogue"  More's  cunning  defence  of  S 
Miracles  done  at  Saints'  shrines,  on  Pilgrimages,  &c.  all  which  he  | 
defends,  as  he  was  bound  by  holy  church  to  do,  most  stoutly.  The 
manner  of  it  is  arch  and  surprising,  and  the  narration  infinitely  naive  ; 
Ihe  matte)-  is  the  old  fallacy  of  confounding  miracles  (things  happening 
out  of  nature)  with  natural  things,  the  grounds  of  which  we  cannot 
explain.     In  this  sense  every  thing  is  a  miracle,  and  nothing  is. 

*^  And  first  if  men  should  tell  you,  that  they  saw  before  aa 
image  of  the  crucifix  a  dead  man  raised  to  life,  ye  would  much  marvel 
thereof,  and  so  might  ye  well  ;  yet  could  I  tell  you  somewhat  that  I 
iiave  seen  myself,  that  methinketh  as  great  marvel,  but  I  have  no  lust 
to  tell  you,  because  that  ye  be  so  circumspect  and  ware  in  belief  of  any 
miracles,  that  ye  would  not  believe  it  for  me,  but  mistrust  me  for  it. 

"  Nay,  Sir,  (quod  he),  in  good  faith,  if  a  thing  seemed  to  me  never 
so  unlikely,  yet  .if  ye  would  earnestly  say  that  yourself  have  seen  it,  I 
neither  would  nor  could  mistrust  it. 

"  "Well  (quod  I)  then  ye  make  me  the  bolder  to  tell  ye.  And  yet 
•will  I  tell  you  nothing,  but  that  I  would,  if  need  were,  find  you  good 
witness  to  prove  it.      " 

"  It  shall  not  need.  Sir,  (quod  he),  but  I  beseech  you  let  me  hear  it. 

"  Forsooth  (quod  1)  because  we  speak  of  a  man  raised  from  death 
to  life.  There  was  in  the  parish  of  St.  Stephen's  in  Walbrook,  in  Lon- 
don, where  I  dwelled  before  I  com©  to  Chelsith,  a  man  and  a  woman, 
which  are  yet  quick  and  quelhing,  and  yqung  were  th«y  both.  The 
eldest  I  am  sure  passed  not  twenty-four.  It  happed  them,  as  doth 
among  folk,  the  one  to  cast  the  fMud  to  the  other.  And  after  many 
lets,  for  the  maiden's  mother  w?is  much  against  it,  at  last  they  came 
together,  and  were  married  in  St.  Stephen's  church,  which  is  not  greatly 
famous  for  many  miracles,  but  yet  yearly  on  St.  Stephen's  day  it  is 
somewhat  sought  unto  and  visited  with  folk's  devotion.  But  now 
short  tale  to  mukfj  this  young  woman  (j^s  manner  is  in  brides  ye  wot 


THE  INDICATOR.  85 

well)  was  at  night  brought  to  bed  with  honest  women.  And  then  after 
that  went  the  bridegroom  to  bed,  and  every  body  went  their  ways,  and 
left  them  twain  there  alone.  And  the  same  night,  yet  abide  let  rae  not 
lie,  now  on  faith  to  say  the  truth  I  am  not  very  sure  of  the  time,  but 
surely  as  it  appeared  afterward,  it  was  of  likeliliood  the  same  night, 
or  some  other  time  soon  after,  except  it  happened  a  little  before. 

"  No  force  for  the  time  (quod  he). 

*'  Truth  (quod  I)  and  as  for  the  matter,  all  the  parish  will  testify 
for  truth,  the  woman  was  known  for  so  honest.  But  for  the  conclu- 
sion, the  seed  of  them  twained  turned  in  the  woman's  body,  first  into 
blood,  and  after  into  shape  of  manchild.  And  then  waxed  quick,  and 
she  great  therewith.  And  was  within  the  year  delivered  of  a  fair  boy, 
and  forsooth  it  was  not  then  (for  I  saw  it  myself)  passing  the  length 
of  a  foot.     And  I  am  sure  he  is  grown  now  an  inch  longer  than  1. 

"  How  long  is  it  ago  ?  (quod  he). 

"  By  my  faith  (quod  I)  about  twenty-one  years. 

"  Tush !  (quod  he),  this  is  a  worthy  miracle  ! 

*'  In  good  faith,  (quod  I)  never  wist  I  that  any  man  could  tell  that 
he  had  any  other  beginning.  And  methinketh  that  this  is  as  great  a 
miracle  as  the  raising  of  a  dead  man." 

Diabolical  Possession  was  a  rag  of  the  the  old  abomination,  which 
this  Contunder  of  Heresies  thought  himself  obliged  no  less  to  wrap 
tightly  about  the  loins  of  his  faith,  than  any  of  the  splendlores  panni  of 
the  old  red  Harlot.  But  (read  with  allowance  for  the  belief  of  the 
times)  the  narrative  will  be  found  affecting,  particularly  in  what  re- 
lates to  the  parents  of  the  damsel,  "  rich,  and  sore  abashed." 

— — "  Amongst  which  (true  miracles)  I  durst  boldly  tell  you  for  one, 
the  wonderful  work  of  God,  that  was  within  these  feAV  years  wrought, 
in  the  house  of  a  right  worshipful  knight,  Sir  Roger  Wentworth,  upon 
divers  of  his  children,  and  especially  one  of  his  daughters,  a  very  fair 
young  gentlewoman  of  twelve  years  of  age,  in  marvellous  manner  vexed 
and  tormented  by  our  ghostly  enemy  the  devil,  her  mind  alienated  and 
raving  with  despising  and  blasphemy  of  God,  and  hatred  of  all  hallowed 
things,  with  knowledge  and  perceiving  of  the  hallowed  from  the  un- 
hallowed, all  were  she  nothing  warned  thereof.  And  after  that  moved 
in  her  own  niind,  and  monished  by  the  will  of  God,  to  go  to  our  Lady 
of  Ippiswitche.  In  the  way  of  which  pilgrimage,  she  prophesied  and 
told  many  things  done  and  said  at  the  same  time  in  other  places,  which 
were  proved  true,  and  many  things  said,  lying  in  her  trance,  of  such 
■wisdom  and  learning,  that  right  cunning  men  highly  marvelled  to  hear 
of  so  young  an  unlearned  maiden,  when  herself  wist  not  what  she  said, 
such  things  uttered  and  spoken,  as  well  learned  men  might  have  missed 
with  a  long  study,  and  finally  being  brought  and  laid  before  the  Image 
of  our  Blessed  Lady,  was  there  in  the  sight  of  many  worshipful  people 
so  grievously  tormented,  and  in  face,  eyen,  look,  and  countenance,  so 
griesly  changed,  and  her  mouth  drawn  aside,  and  her  eyen  laid  out 
upon  her  cheeks,  that  it  was  a  terrible  sight  to  behold.  And  after 
many  marvellous  things  at  the  same  time   shewed  upon  divers  per- 


86  THE  INDICATOR. 

sons  by  the  devil  u{)Oii  God's  sufferance,  as  weJl  all  the  rem- 
hant  as  the  maiden  herself,  in  the  presence  of  all  the  company, 
restored  to  their  good  state  perfectly  cured  and  suddenly.  And 
in  this  matter  no  pretixt  of  begging,  no  suspicion  of  feigning,  no 
possibility  of  counterfeiting,  no  simpleness  in  the  seers,  her  father  and 
mother  right  honourable  and  rich,  sore  abashed  to  see  such  chances  in 
their  children,  the  witnesses  great  number,  and  many  of  great  worship, 
wisdom,  and  good  experience,  the  maid  herself  too  young  to  feign, 
and  the  end  of  the  matter  virtuous,  the  virgin  so  moved  in  her  mind 
with  the  miracle,  that  she  forthviith  for  aught  her  father  could  do,  for- 
sook the  world,  and  profest  religion  in  a  very  good  and  godly  com- 
pany at  the  My  noresse,  where  she  hath  lived  well  and  gracious  ever 
since.'' 

I  shall  trouble  you  with  one  Excerpjt  more,  from  a  "  Dialogue  of 
Comfort  against  Tribulation  ;"  because  the  style  of  it  is  solemn  and 
weighty  ;  and  because  it  was  written  by  More  iu  his  last  imprisonment 
in  the  Tower,  preparatory  to  his  sentence.  After  witnessing  his  treat- 
ment of  Sir  John  Hytton,  and  his  brethren,  we  shall  be  inclined  te 
mitigate  some  of  our  remorse,  that  More  should  have  suffered  death 
himself /or  conscience  sake.  The  reader  will  not  do  this  passage  juslice, 
if  he  do  not  read  it  as  part  of  a  sermon ;  and  as  putting  himself  into 
,  the  feelings  of  an  auditory  of  More's  Creed  and  Times. 

— —  "  But  some  men  now  when  this  calling  of  God  [any  tribulation] 
causeth  them  to  be  sad,  they  be  loth  to  leave  their  sinful  lusts  that  hang 
in  their  hearts,  and  specially  if  they  have  any  such  kind  of  living,  as  they 
must  needs  leave  off,  or  fall  deeper  in  sin  :  or  if  they  have  done  so 
many  great  wrongs,  that  thoy  have  many  'mends  to  make,  that  must  (if 
they  foH,ow  God)  'minish  much  their  money,  then  are  these  folks  (alas) 
woefully  be  wrapped,  for  God  pricketh  upon  them  of  his  great  good- 
ness still,  and  the  grief  of  this  great  pang  pincheth  them  at  the  heart, 
and  of  wickedness  they  wry  away,  and  fro  this  tribulation  they  turn  to 
their  flesh  for  help,  and  labour  to  shake  off  this  thought,  and  then  they 
mend  their  pillow,  and  lay  their  head  softer,  and  assay  to  sleep  ;  and 
when  that  will  not  be,  then  they  find  a  talk  awhile  with  them  that  lie 
by  them.  If  that  cannot  be  neither,  then  they  lie  and  long  for  day, 
an^ithen  get  them  forth  about  theit-  worldly  wretchedness,  the  matter 
of  their  prosperity,  the  self-same  sinful  things  with  which  they  dis- 
please God  most,  and  at  length  with  many  times  using  this  manner, 
God  utterly  casteth  them  off.  And  then  they  set  nought  neither  by  God 
nor  devil.  *  *  *  But  alas!  when  death  cometh,  then  cometh  again 
their  sorrow,  then  will  no  soft  bed  serve,  nor  no  company  make  him 
merry,  then  must  he  leave  his  outward  worship  and  comfort  of  his 
glory,  and  lie  panting  in  his  bed  as  if  he  were  on  a  pine-bank,  then 
cometh  his  fear  of  his  evil  life  and  his  dreadful  death.  Then  cometh 
the  torment,  his  cumbered  conscience  and  fear  of  his  heavy  judgment. 
Then  the  devil  draweth  him  to  despair  Avith  imagination  of  hell,  and 
suffereth  him  not  then  to  take  it  for  a  fable.  And  yet  if  he  do,  then 
lindeth  it  the  wretch  no  fable.    *  *  *  Some  have  I  seen  even  in  their  last 


THE  INDICATOR.  87 

sickness  set  up  in  their  death-bed  underpropped  with  pillows,  fake  their 
play 'fellows  to  them,  and  comfort  themself  with  cards,  and  this  they 
said  did  ease  them  well  to  put  fantasies  out  of  their  heads;  and  what 
fantasies  trow  you?  such  as  I  told  you  right  now  of,  their  own  lewd 
life  and  peril  of  their  soul,  of  heaven  and  of  hell  that  irked  them  to 
think  of,  and  therefore  cast  it  out  with  cards'  play  as  longr  as  ever  they 
might,  till  the  pure  pangs  of  death  pulled  their  heart  fro  their  play, 
and  put  them  in  the  case  they  could  not  reckon  their  game.  And. 
then  left  them  the  gameners,  and  slily  slunk  away,  and  long  was  it  not 
ere  they  galped  up  the  ghost.  And  what  game  they  came  then  to, 
that  God  knoweth  and  not  I.  I  pray  God  it  were  good,  but  I  fear  it 
very  sore." 


THE  «  DRY  BOOK." 


A.  A  bibliomaniac,  who  possessed  it  in  his  library,  discovered  that 
it  gave  his  house  the  dry  rot. 

B.  A  man  who  carried  it  about  him  for  one  day  was  afflicted  with  a 
dry  cough  till  his  death. 

A,  The  trustees  of  a  road  in  "Wales  have  their  toll-tickets  printed  on 
the  waste  sheets  of  it ;  the  London  hackney-coachmen  go  down  there, 
drive  once  through  the  gates,  take  a  ticket,  and  are  always  dry  in  wet 
weather. 

B.  A  friend  of  mine  who  lived  in  a  damp  house,  careful  of  the  con- 
sequences of  a  charcoal  chaffing-dish,  kept  one  in  his  bed-room,  and 
waked  in  the  morning  in  a  high  fever,  from  the  drowth  it  occasioned. 

A.  A  gardener  wrapt  a  water-melon  in  a  waste  sheet  of  it,  and,  on 
cutting  it  up,  found  it  as  dusty  as  a  dry  poppy-head. 

B.  They  cover  warehouses  for  dry  goods  with  it,  instead  of  slates, 
and  it  answers  the  end. 

A.  A  hatter. makes  water-proof  hats  by  pasting  an  inch  of  it  in  the 
ipside. 

B.  A  bunch  of  grapes  was  bagged  in  it,  and  in  half  an  hour  they 
became  dried  raisins. 

A.  They  dry  grasses  and  winter-fodder  for  cattle,  by  reading  a  chap- 
ter of  it  through  the  fens  of  Lincolnshire. 

B.  If  you  place  a  leaf  of  it  in  the  heart  of  a  hay-rick,  it  never  fires 
from  damp.  • 

A.  A  cow  that  was  milked  by  a  man  who  had  heard  its  title-page 
read  never  yielded  milk  afterwards. 


88  THE  indicator: 

'  B,  I  knew  a  laentlress  who  bought  the  last  editiort  of  it,  and  rfold 
her  drying-ground  itnmediately. 

A.  A  spiteful  critic  took  a  review  of  it  to  Sadler's  Wells,  and  they 
•were  obliged  to  postpone  the  water-piece  usual  at  that  theatre. 

B.  If  you  take  it  to  sea,  the  ship  nerer  leaks  t  the  ship-caulkers  are 
starving  in  consequence. 

A.  If  a  mariner  has  breath  enough  to  repeat  a  paragraph  of  it,  when 
lie  falls  overboard,  he  cannot  drown. 

jB.  Tradition  says,  that  Richard,  Duke  of  Gloster,  leaned  his  elbow 
on  it,  and  his  arm  became  dry  and  withered. 

A.  Ladies  wlio  are  shocked  at  that  robustious  indicati'on  of  good, 
helatth^f  a  moist  palm,  touch  it  once,  and  their  hands  become  dry  as  a 
mummy's, 

B.  A  star-gazer  fell  intoa  deep  well  with  the  work  in  his  pocket  ; 
it  saved  his  life  from  drowning,  though  he  died  in  three  weeks  of  star- 
vation, after  eating  his  boots,  because  he  could  neither  get  out,  nor 
digest  one  of  its  arguments. 

A,  I  know  an  author  of  a  very  prolific  brain  who  fell  asleep  with 
his  head  resting  on  it,  and  he  has  had  a  dry  brain  ever  since. 

*  E.  It  is  said  to  be  the  book  that  gave  poor  Petirarch  his  deUth-;.  he 
was  found"  dead  in  his  study,  his  head  leaning  over  it.  ;  •i;1:    ;*{ 

^  A.  Now  we  will  change  the"  subject.  '  The  vice  of  wit  is,  th^t  if  too 
frequently  runs  into  a  forgetfulness  of  the  best  feelings  of  the  humaa 
heart.  The  death,  of  a  man  who  was  "  a  fine  and  deep  poet,  an  ex- 
cellent scholar,  a  real  lover,  a  fast  friend,  a  patriot,  a  gentleman,  and 
an,  honest  man,"  is  no  subiect  for  a  jest.  .  .  .» 

'         ^      '  c.  w. : 


Printed  and  published  by  Joseph  Appleyard,  No.  1.9,  Catbenne-streeJ,  Strand. 
Price  2d. — And  sold  also.by  A.  GuopoN,  Importer  of  Snuff*,  No.  31,  TavistocW- 
street,  Covent-garden.  Orders  received  at  ihe  above  places,  and  by  all  Bpok- 
sellers  and  Newsmen. 


L  : 


THE    INDICATOR. 


•Th€fe  he  arriving  round  about  doth  fiie« 
And  takes  survey  with  busie  curious  eye: 
Now  this,  now  that,  he  tastetli  tenderly;. 


■  ii'  ••i,^^ 


No.  LXIV.— WEDNESDAY,   DECEMBER  27th,  1830. 


The  Editor  had  hoped  to  indulge  himself  this  Christmas  in  some 
articles  respecting  the  season  and  its  enjoyment ;  but  he  has  still  found 
himself  too  unwell.  PerhapS  instead  of  the  following,  it  would  hare 
been  better  to  re-publish  some  papers  he  wrote  on  that  subject  in  the 
Exajwiner  ;  but  this  he  did  not  think  of  till  too  late.  He  would  have 
discontinued  the  Indicator  at  once  during  the  period  of  his  illness, 
had  he  not  believed  that  the  readers  would  prefer  his  piecing  the  chaia 
in  this  manner,  especially  as  his  cherry-stone  workmanship  has  beea 
helped  out  with  materials  more  valuable.  Two  or  three  sunshiny  days 
will,  he  trusts,  set  his  veins  and  his  pen  and  ink  flowing  again.  In  the 
mean  time,  he  cannot  but  congratulate  the  town  on  the  very  leafy,  and 
truly  holiday-like  aspect,  Which  it  has  put  on  this  present  Christmas  ; 
and  is  willing  to  flatter  himself,  that  his  recommendations  to  fhateflbct 
for  some  years  past  may  not  have  been  without  their  £hare  in  pro- 
ducing it. 

It  is  hardly  necessary  to  observe  of  the  following  articles,  that  they  do 
not  involve  all  lawyers,  or  all  eaters  and  drinkers  who  exceed.  Lawyers 
have  certainly,  a  great  tendency  to  degenerate ;  but  the  exceptions,  (of 
which  we  have  lately  had  some  admirable  specimens)  only  do  someof  them 
the  more  honouf:  and  excess  at  table,  though  not  of  the  tnost  excessive 
or  ungraceful  kind,  sometimes  originates  in  mere  morbidity  and  ex- 
haustion. And  with  respect  to  religious  bigots  we  allude,  on  this,  as 
on  all  other  occasions  where  we' undertake  to  censure  them,  to  those 
only  who  become  such  out  of  selfishness  rather  than  timidity. 

Vol.  n. 


90  THE  INDICATOR. 

HISTORIA  PR/ETER-NATURALIS, 

,      ,     .  SITE 

HENRICULI  FUSCI  LIBELLUS  AUREUS 
ANIMALIA    HUMANiE   SPECIES    DEGENERIORA    TRACTANS. 
ACCEDIT    H0MINI3    IPSIUS    0ESCRIPTIO,    VIRI    FEMINiEQUE. 

THE  PRvETER-NATURAL  HISTORY 

OF    THE   MOST    DEGENERATE    ANIMALS    OF   THE  HUMAN    RACE, 
ERIEFLT   BO'P   ELEGANTLY   SET   FORTH, 

BY   HARRt^   BROWN. 

Londini  Westmon.  Hamps,  Maryl.  Van  Juc.  Comitiim.  Soc.  Tab.  Rdliind,  Eqiiit. 
Natur.  Vindic.  Ruricol.  Cosmopol.  Exam.  Polit.  Nihilom,  Liter.  Humamor.  Profess. 
Necn.  Philos.  Imo.  Eti.  Foe.   .. 

To  whieli  is  added,  by  the  sam^  Author, 
A  Description  of  the  True  Human  Being,  Male  and  FemAle. 

'(fjol  lUi?  INTRODUCTION  BY  THE  EDITOR. 

Irf  the  absence  of  my  learned  and  illustrious  friend,  the  author  of 
the  following  chapters  (whom  I  may  truly  say  1  respect  and  love  as  my 
own  self,)  1  have  been  commissioned  by  him  to  lay  them  before  the 
public;  which  I  accordingly  do,   with  a  satisfactioii  far  beyond  mere 
,  Editorship.     Should  they  afterwards  be  collected  into  the  shape  of  a 
,  book,  as  doubtless  they  will,  I  know  it  to  be  the  intention  of  my  friend 
to  write  a  more  particular  preface  of  his  own  ;  so  that  I  abstain  from  say- 
ing muth'  t6  that  effect,  or  from  availing  myself  of  the  numberless 
things,  equally  pleasant  and  profitable,  which  I  have  heard  him.  utter 
^,jon  the  subject, — both  in  town  and  country,- — in-serious  moments  and 
.  in  merry. — I  shall  only  make  four  brief  remarks  ; — First,  (hat  the  de- 
^^rableness'of  such  a  work  will  be  obvious  at  first  sight  to  the  readefs 
:  of  Natural  History  ;  Second,  thait  there  has  been   an  universal  and  51s 
it  were  prophetic  glimpse  of  it  in  the  ■minds  of  men,  as    evinced  by 
various  phrases  In  common  use,  such  as  '^  What  an  animJil  Y.  or  Z. 
~is.'-'^"  Wh'kt  a  beast  W.makes  of  himself  1*'  &c.-&c.  •,— Third,  that 
the  author  in  his  descriptions  of  the  various  animals  nerer  has  in  vieAV 
o^ny  particiilar  or  pet  :beast,'  (which  might,  offend  the  fanciers  of  such 
.things,)  his  studies  of  them  having  been  very  general  and  philosophic  ;-r- 
and  Fourth  arid  last,  that  it  is  not  within  (he  scope  of  his  work  to  take 
'fnotice  of  the  maiiy  exceptions  to  his  descriptions  in  general,  partrcij- 
r.darty  of  such  ashave  only  a  slight  degeneracy  from  the  original  hijma,n 
.stock.     Of  the  mode  of  reclaiming  the  whole  variety,  I  shall  leave  tljo 
author  to  speak  without  further  insinuation  ;  merely  premising,   that 
""lie' hakloiig' been  meditating  on  the  subject  with  various  living  philoso- 
^  pherfe,  and  that  this  is  the  great  object  of  all  hi&  studies,  whether  read- 
.  iqg  BuffpiV'Oi^  P'T'Con,  or  Plato,  or. Shakspear^j.,o,y, Montaigne,  or  the 
face  of  nature  or  the  heart  of  man. 
.  And  soj  gentle  reader,  peruse  and  profit. 


THE  INDICATOR.  ,        91, 


No.  I.— THE  BICAUD,  OR  TWO-TAILED  GABBLER.^ 

'0  No/^uxof,  in  Greek. 

Jurisconsultus, — JurisperltuR,  in  Latin. 

L'Avvocato,  in  Italian. 

L'Avocat,  in  French.  '-''' 

The  Advocate,  Counsellor,  or  Barrister,  in  English.  ';•'* 

Latin  summary: — Jurisconsultus,  sive  Bicaudis  Garrulus,  Ammal  omniiio  singulare; 
vultu  pallido,  calloso,  iristi,  atiamen  procaci ;  fergore  nigro,  fluxo,  anguino,  quod 
exuit  sponte  sua  ;  mirabiliori  autem  cassarie,  alba,  pnlverulenia,  iiUorta  quasi  oala- 
•mislro,  bicaudi,  qnam  simiil  expeditiusque  deponit. — Ingreditur,  poliusve  sedet, 
gregatim  i  et  incidens  in  folia  quaedam  papyri  pertenuia,  Anglice  dieta  Bank-Notes 
sive  jFees,  celat  in  perula  iiistanter,  exullatque  in  pedes  posteriores,  garritque  gesti- 
culaturque  modo  simiss  candafes.  + 

This  is  a  very  singular  animal,  chiefly  remarkable  for  its  having  two 
tails  at  the  back  of  its  head,  and  for  its  being  moved  by  tlie  touch  of 
certain  thin  leaves  of  the  Papyrus,  or  Paper-tree,  to  get  up  on  its  hind 
legs,  and  utter  a  long  discordant  gabble.  Its  skin  is  black,  hangs 
loosely  about  it,  and  can  be  cast  by  the  animal  at  pleasure  like  that  of' 
a  snake.  What  is  still  more  extraordinary,  it  has  this  faculty  also 
with  regard  to  its  two  tails  and  the  pallid  hairy  kind  of  rug  to  which 
they  are  attached.  The  rug  resembles  the  natural  peruke  of  certain 
monkies,  or  rather  the  curled  rug  which  is  left  on  the  hind  quarters  of 
a  dog.  When  it  casts  its  outer  skin,  it  generally  appears  in  a  closer 
one  of  the  same  colour;  and  some  of  the  older  Bicauds^  when  they 
cast  their  rug,  and  two  tails,  produce  another  tail  from  beneath  like  a 
pig's.  But  this  latter  species  is  going  out.  The  face  is  generally  pale  ; 
and  like  some  of  the  larger  tribe  of  monkies,  thoughtful  and.  melan- 
choly. A  pert  character  is  nevertheless  usually  observable  in  it,  and 
even  a  hardness  and  want  of  feeling ;  though  when  young,  aud  before 
ito  two  tails  are  grown,  or  occasionally  some  time  afterwards,  it  fg 
often  a  sprightly  creature.  We  have  known  some,  who  have  little  re- 
semblance however  to  the  rest  of  the  species,  exhibit  a  lively  emotion 
at  hearing  music  and  poetry,  and  even  at  the  sight  of  sculpture;  and 
these  will  also  roam  about  the  fields  with  a  mixed  gravity  and  vivacity, 
like  poUs  come  to  years  of  discretion. 

*  As  the  author's  mauuscripts  are  not  yet  arranged,  it  is  very  probable  that  the 
animals  will  not  come  in  the  order  in  which  1  have  happened  to  place  them.  At 
all  events,  the  Bicaud  is  not  to  be  taken  as  llie  leading  degeneracy,' it  being  neithef 
best  nor  worst  among  the  Anlbropomorphites. — 1  take  this  opportunity  of  njention- 
ing,  that  an  edition  of  the  work  will  most ,  likely  appear  at  a  future  day  vjth  the 
plates  usual  in  these  histories,  which  ^iltad^mucli  to  the  liveliness  of  the  inopresi; 
sion.  .   '      '       '  •'.  w...     _:  r'^' :'.,:■  it.i 

+  The  Counsellor,  Bicaud,  or  Two-Tailed  Gabbler,  a  creature  altogether  singular. 
Its  countenance  is  at  once  pale,  callous,  melancholy,  and  pert :  its  skin  black,  hang- 
ing down,  and  put  off  at  will  like  a  snake's.  It  has  a  still  more  remarkable  iiead  of 
hair,  white,  powdered,  curled  as  if  with  irons,  and  double-tailed  ;  which  it  removes 
at  the  same  time  and  ,wil]i  greater  ease.  .The  Bicauds  go,  or  rather  sit  in  flocks; 
and  virhenever  one  of  them  alights  upon  certain  flimsy  pieces  of  paper,  called  Bank- 
notes, he  hides  them  with  great  expedition  in  a  pouch  he  has,  and  then  getting  up 
upon  his  hind-legs,  gabbles  and  g^L'sticulates  like  a  monkey. 


02  THE  INMCATOR. 

The  Bicaud  farther  resembles  the  monkey  in  being  gregarious, 
YouHg  and  old  assemble  in  different  places  every  morning,  before  two 
or  three  aged  ones,  whose  shins  are  bordered  with  ermine,  aud  whose 
tails  have  grown  to  a  size  like  those  of  African  sheep,  and  hang  for- 
ward on  each  side  their  faces.  The  whole  sight  is  very  ridiculous,  and 
resembles  the  well-known  phenomenon  of  a  council  of  crows.  Some 
unfortunate  animals  when  they  have  caught  trespassing  on  their  pre- 
mises are  brought  in,  as  if  to  be  judged;  and  one  Two-Tailed  Gabbler 
gets  up  at  a  time  on  his  hind-legs,  and  appears  to  reason  on  the  subjecf, 
making  strange  grins  and  gesticulations.  Sometimes  he  seems  to  laugh  ; 
soraetiraes  he  raises  his  eye-brows,  as  if  in  astonishment ;  sometimes 
tosses  his  skin  and  two  tails  about  in  all  the  heat  and  flutter  of  an 
angry  fine  lady  ;  and  every  now  and  then  he  turiis  over  certain  thicker 
leaves  of  the  papyrus,  of  which  there  is  always  great  plenty  on  the  spot. 
All  this  looks  as  if  something  really  were  meant ;  but  it  has  been  well 
ascertained,  by  innumerable  and  anxious  experiments,  that  the  Bicaud 
who  gets  up  to  gabble  is  influenced  not  by  any  interest  in  behalf  of  the 
culprit,  or  of  reason,  but  by  his  having  secretly  touched  some  of  those 
thin  leases  previously  mentioned,  which  he  immediately  conveys  into 
a  pouch  on  his  right  side,  and  the  possession  of  which  puts  him  into  a 
Sort  of  transport.  All  the  rest  who  have  not  been  so  lucky  remain 
sitting  as  gravely  as  possible,  except  when,  nothing  appears  to  be  going 
forward:  at  which  time  they  are  as  noisy  and  apparently  as  mis- 
chievous as  a  forest  of  monkies,  or  a  school  in  the  master's  absence, 
chattering  and  mowing  at  each  other  the  whole  timejth^  younger  espe-^ 

It  is  observed  of  this  cunning  and  melancholy  animal,  that  there  is 
none  which  it  is  so  difficult  to  get  beyond  the  usual  instinct,  or  what 
may  be  called  habit  and  precedent  of  its  species.  It  is  also  bolder  and 
more  like  a  man,  when  it  casts  its  outer  skin ;  but  the  moment  the 
Jatter  is  resumed,  relapses  into  its  characteristic  timidity,  especially  in 
presence  of  the  old  ones,  at  whose  slightest  muttering  it  suspends  its 
gabble,  ducking,  and  bowing,  and  drawing  the  air  through  its  teeth, 
with  an  infinite  gravity  of  deference.  It  seems  to  attach  itself  natu- 
rally to  the  rich  and  great ;  and  like  most  creatures  of  the  anthropro- 
morphite  race,  will  sit  at  table,  eat  heartily,  and  drink  more  so,  parti- 
cularly wine,  of  which  it  is  very  fond.  It  is  also  extremely  amorous, 
ihough  a.fter  a  coarse  fashion ;  and  we  have  known  it  dangerous  for 
viomea  to  go  near  some  of  the  very  oldest.  The  latter,  when  observed, 
put  on  aspects  so  prodigiously  grave  and  devout,  that  the  one  whose 
skin  in  advanced  age  is  marked  with  certain  golden  stripes,  has  been 
facetiously  called  Keeper  of  the  King's  Conscience. 


No.  2.— THE  CESOPHAGUS,  OR  GLUTTON. 

In   Greek,   Avro?.wvBos,    (dripping-pan)  ;  —  AafwTijf,    (Man    of 
FuEY); — A/;^vor,  (ticker  of  plates  or  fingers). 
In  Latin,  Gido  (Gullet)  • — Helluo  (Clearer). 


THE  INDICATOR.  93 

In  Italian  Gliiotlo  (same  as  the  Gr^ek  AvroXYDivQos) ; — PaccJdone 
(Great  Packer)  ; — Arlotto  (the  name  of  a  jolly  Priest) ; — Jjiircone  (same 
as  the  Latin  Lurco)  ; — Mangiorie  (Great  Feeder)  ; — Crapolone  (Lot.  & 
Gr.  Surfeiter — Sufierer  from  Stuffing). 

In  French,  Glmitrm  (Lot.  &  Gr.  Swallower) ; — Gourmand  (Strangler). 

In  English,  the  Glutton^  Gormandizer^  Greedijgtd,  Bellygodj  &c. 

Latin  Summary. — (Esophagus  s'lve  Gulo,  atiimnl  fcedum  ao  vere  belluinum,  im- 
mane,  praedans,  sese  saginaus,  veiiiri  prorstis  dedittim  :  imo  eqiiidem,  dediium  ut 
servHS  ;  venter  eiiim  Neroiiicus  in  medio  domiiiaiur,  aliisque  membris  tumidis  inso- 
Jeiitur  accrescens  eminensqiie,  extal  vnlde  tumidior.  Horribilem  liumanam  simili- 
tiidinem  relinet,  perindeac  omnis  Anihropomorphila.  Nibilominus  abdomen  plenim- 
qne  porcintim  habet,  crura  elephantina,  vultum  quasi  Tric/ieci  Rosmari  sive  Walrus^ 
at  reliquHm  molem  honeslo  sermoiie  taceiidam,  Avide  iiitrat  in  carna.ria  el  pisca- 
tnria  macella,  et  seligit  dapes;  quas  prona  ciipidilate  el  quiidam  ponderosa  alacri- 
laie,  inter  suspiria  grunnitiisque  injiurgitat.  Raro  longa;vum  est,  stepe  a5p;rotan.«, 
wmper  nisi  inter  prsedandum  siibtri.ste.  Graviter  dormit,  somnians  ut  cuiiis,  sed 
not!  ludibunda  ;  iiamque  cibo  somnoqne  sepultum  Ephialtes  equitan^  vexat,crucia- 
meiita  anguiliarum  et  asiacoriim  sufFocante  liorrore  utciscens.* 

There  is  another  animal  called  the  Glutton,  with  which  the  one 
before  us  must  not  be  confounded.  The  former  lives  in  solitudes  like 
a  plain  unaffected  beast,  and  neither  counterfeits  nor  seems  intended 
for  any  thing  better  than  what  it  is.  It  is  no  more  to  be  considered 
degenerate  than  a  mere  sponge,  or  absorbing  vessel,  or  a  whirlpool  in 
the  sea,  or  a  mill  for  grinding,  or  the  jackals  and  vultures  which  clear 
their  native  districts  from  offal.  It  would  be  doing  it  an  injustice 
therefore  to  confound  it  with  the  latter,  which  is  a  regular  human  de- 
generacy, retaining  a  likeness  of  the  original  stock,  and  shewing  itself 
unblushingly  in  cities  and  in  open  day-light. 

The  (Esophagus  or  Anthropomorphite  GhUton  is  a  creature  princi- 
pally found  in  the  civilized  parts  of  the  worhl,  where  it  is  produced  by 
the  same  causes  which  give  rise  to  prize  oxen  and  the  pampered  varie- 
ties of  the  dog.  Its  external  likeness  to  the  original  stock  is  mortify- 
ingly  strong,  especially  as  mere  indolence  will  produce  something  like 
the  same  appearance  in  the  man  and  woman.  But  the  difference  is 
easily  discoverable.  The  Glutton's  look  is  altogether  painful  and  flus- 
tered, as  well  as  unwieldy.  It  has  a  body  of  unhealthy  grossness, 
large  jaws,  eyes  sunk  in  fat,  and  is  subject  to  panting  and  a  half- 
choked  utterance.     The  mouth  and  other  features  are  not  always  so 

*  The  (Esophagus  or  Glullon  Is  a  foul  and  truly  beastly  animal,  hiisre,  prffidafory, 
stuffiii^r^  aud  altogether  given  up  to  its  belly:  yes,  given  up  like  a  slave  ;  for  tliHt 
Nero.-like  part  of  him  lords  it  in  the  centre,  and  insolently  agsrrnndizing  and  pro- 
truding' itself  beyond  the  rest  of  his  bloated  limbs,  looks  forth  with  a  supereminent 
roiuitdiiy.  Like  other  Anthropomorphites,  it  retains  a  horrible  likeness  to  the  hu- 
man shape:  but  for  the  most  part  its  stomach  is  like  a  hog's,  its  legs  like  an  ele- 
phant's, uii"d  its  countenance  like  the  Trichecus  Rosmaris  ov  fValrus.  The  rest  of  it 
IS  not  fit  to  be  spoken  of.  It  gets  greedily  into  butchers'  shops  und  fislimongers',  and 
chooses  its  own  food;  which  with  a  prone  eagerness  and  a  certain  ponderous  ala- 
crity, it  deglufes  and  as  it  were,  engulfs,  amidst  sighs  and  groans.  It  is  oeldom 
long-lived,  often  ailing,  and  always  rallier  melancholy  than  otherwise  except  at 
meals,  (ts  sleep  is  heavy ;  audit  dreams  like  the  dog,  only  not  about  any  tliin;; 
sportful;  for  while  it  lies  buried  in  sleep  and  fond,  it  is  ridden  to  its  great  toiniont 
by  the  Night-mare;  who  thus,  with  a  sufl'jualinjj  horror,  revenges  the  sufferings  of 
eels  aud  lobsters. 


S4  THE  INDICATOR. 

large  as  might  be  expected  from  its.  liabits.  We  have  seen  Gluttons 
ivith  features  so  small  as  to  look  like  the  little  knobs  left  in  the  middle 
ofapaneof  glass  in  an  ailehouse  window;  but  the  cheeks  and  jaw- 
bones are  pretty  sure  to  take  a  considerable  sweep;  and  the  maxillary' 
Jooscles,  especially  when  in  action,  are  thick  and  protruding.  The 
forehead  is  generally  small,  narrow,  and  retreating,  the  outline  of,  the 
face. gradually  swelling  downwards  like  a  jelly-bag.  With  the  excep- 
tion of  tusks,  the  animals  vThich  they  most  resemble,  upon  the  whole, 
particularly  when  in  a  state  of  repose,  are  the  Walruses,  Morses,  or 
RosntaH^  which  lie  in  gigantic  huddles  upon  the  ice-fields  on  the 
northern  coasts,  and  to  whom  Spenser  alludes  in  his  fearful  list  of  sea-, 
animals,— 

And  greedy  Rosmarins  with  visages  deform.* 

This  creature  sits  upright,  being  easily  supported  by  its  size  like  a 
double  feiither-bed;  but  it  is  fondest  of  a  state  of  repose,  ospeciallly 
after  meals,  when  it  will  sometimes  with  great  pleasure  allow  its  keepers 
to  let  it  blood. f  I  abstain  from  mentioning  other  more  loathsome 
remedies,  which  it  has  in  common  with  the  sick  dog.  When  it  walks 
on  its  hind  legs,  it  has  a  ridiculous  waddle  ;  and  in  summer  time,  may 
be  Si;en  drying  its  head  as  it  goes  with  a  white  or  coloured  vegetable 
substance,  which  it  keeps  in  its.  side  pouch  for  that  purposed  Ail  the 
jnale  Anthropomorphite  animals  in  Europe  have  a  side  pouch.  After 
a  full  repast,  the  raule.wlH  pant  and  grunt,  and  the  female  utter  feeble 
cries  like  the  S/oiA.  The  latter  also,  at  that  time,  is  easily  moved  to 
tears.  Like  most  human  degeneracies,  the  sexes  have  little  affection 
for  each  other,  retuiuiiig,  enough  of  their  original  instinct  to  prefer 
men  :ind  women.  The  lat'er  however  aS  instinctively  avoid  them, 
shuddering  as  much  at  the  bare  idea  of  their  caresses,  as  the  wiomen  iri 
Africa  do  at  (he  odious  ambition  of  the  Ouraiig-Outang. 

The  Glutton  seldom  retains  any  thing  more  of  its  original  humari 
nature  than  suffices  to  feed  its  selfish  appetites.  But  in  this  kind  of 
foresight,  it  is  eminent  and  profound.  The  instinct  of  gain  is  the  last 
which  forsakes  the  Anthropomorphites.  We  should  rather  say,  it 
distinguishes  most  of  ihem,  and  one  species  in  particular,  as  we  shall 
have  occasion  to  shew.  The  Glutton  is  apt  to  partake  very  strongly 
of  this  appetite,  and  in  many  instances  does  not' attain  to  its  complete 
degeneracy,  till  it  has  wherewithal  to  get  the  requisite  brutifications 
without  further  trouble.  Our  readers  have  heard  of  the  dog,  whose 
master  used  to  give  him  a  penny  every  day  to  buy  a  tart  with.  The 
Glutton  will  scrape  pence  together  for  years  by  every  petty  artifice, 
merely  that  when  it  begins  buying  its  tarts  and  meats,  it  may  leave  the 
task  of  scraping  to  the  younger  Gluttons  its  cubs,  and  so  repose  itself 
in  its  stye  for  life.     All  the  trouble  it  takes  is  .to  chuse  its  own  food  * 

*  Tlie  fiiiiirp  of  this  animaf  in  tlie  Englisli  translation  of  BufFon  is  unusuaily  bud". 
Tli(?rL'  aie  bt'lUT  one,<  in  Cooke's!  Voyages.  l?iit  uie  rurious  reader  may  see  ttiem 
ji'iinleii  to  (lit!  Ii!e  ill  ilic  adrtiiiuble  jjaiiorama  of  Spirzbcrgen,  now  being  exhibited 
in  LpiL'esler-s(]iiarP. 

T   See  one  of  ihcn)  uiidcigoin^;  tliis  operation  in  llogailh'i  Lllection  Dinner. 


THE  INDICATOR.  S5 

for  which  purpose  it  maybe  often  seen  coming  into  the  butchers' and 
fishmongers'  shops,  walking  in  the  most  ungain,  manner  upon  its  hind 
legs,  and  making  signs  and  grunts  indicative  of  its  liking  or  disliking 
the  eatables.  It  will  stop  in  this  manner  for  half  an  hour  tog(  ther, 
pawing  and  smelling  tliem,  and  giving  the  shopman  to  understand  how 
many  pence  it  will  or  will  not  part  with  ;  for  its  great  perversion  of 
instinct  consists  in  accumulation  ;  and  it  is  generally,  though  not  al- 
ways, as  loth  to  let  go  any  of  the  ore  it  has  scraped  into  its  pouch,  as 
it  is  eager  to  cram  dainties  down  its  maw.  We  are  sorry  we  ar« 
obliged  to  dwell  on  such  matters;  but  the  utility  as  well  as  truth  of 
.our  history  compels  us.  This  property  of  haunting  tlie  markets  the 
iGlutton  has  in  common  with  the  jackal  ;  and  if  it  does  not  snap  at 
passengers'  legs,  as  the  latter  will  do  when  it  is  feasting  with  its  com- 
panions at  night-time  in  the  squares  of  Alexandria,  it  will  look  at  one 
of  its  own  species  who  carries  off  a  favourite  bit,  with  eyes  as  if  it 
could  eat  both.  It  is  at  once  disgusting  and  painful  to  see  how  the 
creature  will  linger  about  these  places.  Sometimes  it  will  walk  in  a 
restless  and  eager  manner  all  about  the  market ;  sometimes  take  a 
dying  lobster  in  its  paw,  and  weigh  it  to  feel  whether  it  is  heavy  aixl 
fleshy;  sometimes  stop  and  look  at  a  particular  jowl  or  joint,  like  a 
dog  watching  a  barrow  of  horse-flesh,  jerking  its  eyes  about  and  lick- 
ing its  lips  as  the  seller  happens  to  move  it  hither  aud  thither.  It  is 
often  very  cruel,  and  prefers  animals  which  have  been  killed  under 
circumstances  of  barbarity,  such  as  crimped  cod,  eels  flayed  alive,  lob- 
sters that  have  been  boiled  alive,  .and  pigs  that  have  been  whipped  to 
death.  It  is  impossible  nevertheless,  sometimes,  to  help  being  amused 
with  the  female,  who  will  fidget  with  a  miticing  and  affi  cted  air  ^f 
aversion  down  an  avenue  of  the  bleeding  carcases  of  sheep  ;  and  then 
reject,  with  a  toss  of  her  nose,  a  fish  that  has  not  been  cut  asunder 
when  living. 

To  see  these  animals  eat  Is  a  sight  painful  to  the  curious  observer. 
The  least  thing  they  do  is  to  lick  their  own  paws.  They  champ,  they 
grind,  they  deglute,  they  pant,  they  gobble,  they  stare.  Their  cheeks 
are  flushed  with  toil  and  fever,  in  the  larger  ones,  the  veins  of  the 
temples  swell  up,  the  muscles  of  the  jaws  are  in  fearful  action,  the 
forehead  reeks  with  moisture.  They  mark  out  particular  bits  for  their 
"  p'rey,  and  envy  those  that  carry  them  off".  And  here  we  must  ob- 
serve, that  we  do  not  confound  this  disgusting  animal  with  a  milder 
degeneracy  called  the  Epicure;  The  Epicure  sometimes  is  almost 
abstemious  ;  and  properly  speaking,  is  only  remarkable  for  its  anxious 
choice  of  dainties,  which  though  a  mean  is  not  a  gluttonous  passion. 
But  the  Glutton  on  the  other  hand  generally  includes  the  love  of 
dainties  in  its  v/ider  appetite;  and  though  it  will  not  reject  coarser 
viands,  will  eat  the  finer  ones  the  most  voraciously.  It  will  get,  if 
possible,  the  first,  best,  and  most  of  every  thing  in  season,  and  eat  it 
all  to  itself.  We  have  repeatedly  seen  one  of  them  gorge  a  favouri'.e 
dish,  with  exclusive  and  jealous  watchfulness,  like  a  growling  cat; 
and  toss,  at  sullen  intervals,  hits  of  coarser  food  to  its  parent  and 
young,  with  an  almost  human  ccusciousncss  of  being  in  the  wrong. 


96  THE  INDICATOR. 

It  will  easily  be  imagined  that  such  a  creature  must  be  subject  fa 
numerous  diseases.  Among  the  principal  are  head-achs,  and  heart- 
burns, gastric  tumours,  hepatitis,  plethora,  inflammations  of  all  sorts, 
gout,  cholic,  and  apoplexy.  These  render  it  liable  also  to  great  pee- 
vishness, fits  of  anger,  horrible  dreams;  and  in  the  female,  as  we  have 
before  hinted,  hysterical  passions  and  burly  floods  of  tears,  which  the 
inexperienced  spectator  too  often  commiserates. 

The  human  beings  particularly  liable  to  degenerate  into  the  aaimal 
called  the  Glutton,  are  priests,  citizens,  tyrants,  and  pampered  women. 
Priests  are  subject  to  l(,  partly  from  a  sedentary  and  uDSpeculativ^  life, 
and  partly  because  being  in  a  marked  manner  denied  other  sensualities) 
they  the  more  pronely  give  into  what  is  left  them.  The  citizen  is  apt 
to  fall  into  it,  because  he  has  been  taught  no  better  notion  of  enjoy- 
ment, and  because  his  dinner  tempts  him  to  make  an  excessive  set-off 
against  the  hunger  and  thirst  of  his  shopkeeping.  The  tyrant  (poor 
wretch  !)  gets  the  disease,  out  of  pure  impotence  of  self-will.  He  can- 
not deny  it  to  himself,  more  than  any  thing  else.  And  it  is  the  same, 
in  proportion  with  the  pampered  Avoman.  A  flourishing,  stirring 
tradeswoman,  especially  one  that  is,  ''the  better  horse,''  is  liable  with 
her  daily  gains  and  her  hot  cozy  suppers,  to  settle  into  this  more  dege- 
nerate transformation.  So  is  a  jolly  old  widow  who  cannot  jn  decency 
have  any  niore  husbands.  The  vvife  of  Bath,  we  would  lay  any  wager, 
took  the  metamorphosis  as  kindly  as  cheese  after  pye.  But  she  would 
■  no  longer  seem  as  agreeable.  Her  health  and  good  looks  would  go, 
and  her  temper  get  worse.  Even  the  lowest  and  coarsest  aspects  of 
sympathy  have  something  redeeming  in  them.  It  is  pure  self-revoU  ing 
selfishness  that  "  embases  and  embrutes." 


Printed  and  published  by  Joseph  Applevard,  No.  19,  Calherine-street,  Strand. 
Price  2d.— And  sold  also  by  A.  Gliddon,  Importer  of  Snuffs,  No,  31,  Tavistoisk- 
street,  Covent-garden.     Orders  received  at  the  above  places,  and  by  all  Book' 

sellers  and  Newsmen.  ,  .  , 


THE    INDICATOR. 


There  he  arriving  round  ahout  dolli  ffie, 
And  takes  survey  with  busie  curious  eye: 
Now  this,  now  that,  he  tasteth  tetiderly._ 

SpENaBit. 


N».LX v.— WEDNESDAY,  JANUARY  3d,  1821. 


The  Editor  will  resmne  his  chat  with  his  readers  next  week.  The 
jpresent  paper  is  partly  made  up  of  some  farther  extracts  from  his 
former  writings,  partly  of  a  happy,  seasonable  article  on  holiday- 
children  from  a  Correspondent,  who  will  accept  his  best  thanks  To 
the  first  article  the  same  caution  is  applicable,  as  was  given  to  its  pre- 
decessors in  our  last.  It  is  not  all  bigots  in  religion  that  are  alluded 
to;  but  only  those  that  become  such  out  of  hard-heartedness  rather 
than  timidity.  The  interval  between  a  sturdy  Fire-Threatener  and  a 
sickly  one  is  the  sanie  as  between  abrule  selfishness  and  a  frightened 


PRiETER-NATURAL  HISTORY. 

iNo.  3.---TnE    FIRE-THREATENER,    STAR-GAZING   HOWLER,    FIELD^ 
n        .  PREACHER,  OR  BETE  DE  CHAUVIN. 

Latin  Summary. — Igniminax,,  sive  Beslia  Calvinisticus  aut  Melhodictu;  animal,  ut 
breviter  dicarn,  te'lerriiDnm.  Corpus  rigidum  est,  Irons  planipiUis,  cervix  dura, 
appetitus  penilns  sordid),  aspectus  porci-vulpi-laiirintis.  AvideccElum  tnetur,  avi- 
diiis  aiitem  CHrnem,  avidissime  nnmmum.  Agit  concionatorem,  more  Simif«  Beelze- 
bubhissjRf,  ».\\iia  Cercopitheei  Predicantis,  aW&s  Howling  Bahoorii  vjdensqne  ignena 
aut  incendium,  minaciter  indicat  viatoribits  qui  congressum  Cal viiiisiicutn  fugiunt, 
et  liorridissima  ricta  risuque  spem  aivnuit  deflagrationis  eorum.' 

*  The  Fire-Threatener,  Bete  de  Cliauvin,  or  Methodist;  an  animal  of  llie  very 
foulest  description.  Its  body  is  stiff,  its  forehead  flat-haired,  its  neck  and  shoulders 
indurated,  its  appetites  profoundly  selfish,  its  aspect  partaking  of  the  hog,  fox,  and 
bull.  It  casts  greedy  looks  at  heaveo,  greedier  at  a  good  dinner,  greediest  of  all  at 
n1on€y.  Like  the  Beelzebub  Ape  of  Linnffius,  alias  tlie  Preacher-Monkey,  alias  the 
Hbwiing  Baboon,  it  is  fond  of  playing  the  clergyman  ;  and  at  the  sight  of  a  fire  of 
any  kind,  points  it  out  in  a  threatening  manner  to  such  passengers  as  refuse  ts  join 
its  congregation;,  indicating,  with  horrible  nods,  and  laughter,  its  hope  of  seeing 
them  burning. 

Vol.  II. 


98  THE  INDICATOR. 

All  the  Anthropomorphites,  or  animals  in  the  likeness  of  man,  have 
a  nearer  resemblance  in  their  manners  and  appearance  to  monkies, 
than  to  any  other  of  the  brute  creation  : — with  this  difference,  that 
their  degenerate  tendency  usually  carries  them  beyond  the  monkey 
nature,  into  that  of  other  beasts,  whose  dispositions  they,.uuite  with  it. 
Thus  the  Bicaud  or  Barrister,  besides  ^dnijing  ^and igesticulating  like 
the  common  monkey,  chatters  and  hides  money  like  the  magpie.  Many 
of  the  GluttonSy  who  are  still  fonder  of  hiding  money,  chatter  very 
little;  but  they  all  grunt  as  well  as  eat  like  the  hog.  The  creature 
before  us  grins,  and  gesticulates,  and  delights  in  the  sight  of  mischief, 
like  the  monkey  ;  chatters  and  hides  money  like  the  magpie  •  eats  in 
general  like  the  hog ;  and  is  also  as  howling  as  the  baboon,  and  as 
cruel  and  pensive-looking  as  the  cat. 

This  animal  has  in  general  a  coarse  rusty  black  skin,  a  poll  with 
coarse  flat  short  hair,  dirty  paws,. a  nasal  cry,  and  a,s,ulleri.aod  selfish 
expression  of  face,  occasionally  opening  into  a  horrible  hypocritical 
grin.     You  doubt  whether  it  is  going  to  smile  or  bite.     It  will  bay  the 
sky,  as  a  dog  does  the  moon ;  and  if  any  one  makes  signs  to  know 
■where  its  stock  is  (for  it  is  extremely  fond  of  hiding  money),  it  has  the 
Tiemarkable  habit  of  pointing  upwards  towards  the  same  place,  as  if  its 
treasure  lay  there..    Dogs  have  dreams,  and  many  animals  a  sort  of 
foresight.     There  is  reason  to  believe  that  the  Fire-Threatener  does 
actually  retain  a  notion  of  the  immortality  of  the  soul,  common  to  the 
original  human  stock;  a  perception,  that  would  be  wonderful  in  so 
despicable  a  brute,  did  not  vanity  and  selfishness  sometimes  jump  to 
th6  same  conclusions  as  a  nobler  aspiration.     The  confused  notions  of 
another  world  in  the  mind  of  the  Fire->Threatener  have  evidently. as 
little  humanity  as  .possible.     During  thunder  and;  lightning,  or  other 
awful  aspects  of  the  sky,  it  will  grovel  in  the  dust,  or  hang  .up.  its  en-, 
treating  paws  like  a  begging  dog;  but  when  the  weather  is  serene,  and 
the  sun  and  the  flowers  sparkle,  and  all  creation  looks  fair,  it  seems  to 
turn  with  contempt  from,  the  lovely  face  of  things,  as  who  should  say, 
'.'What  a  miserable  world!"     It  exhibits  the  same  aspect  when,  a 
human  being  is  buried,  and  the  weeping  relations  are  looking  up  to 
heaven   with   tears  of  hope ;  but   at  the   burial  of  one  of  the  Fire- 
Threateners  (for  they  cover  their  dead  like  some  othef  beasti)  they 
"point  upwards,  and  groan,  and  howl,  which  is  their  way  of  expressing 
both  misery  and  satisfaction.     They  also  exhibit  the  cruelty  and  vin- 
dictiveness  of  their  natures,  by  pointing  to  a  fire  whenever  they  see 
one,  and  then  making  signs  and  grins  to  those  who  avoid  them,  expres- 
sive of  satisfaction  at  the  fancy  of  seeing  them  in  it ;  a  piece  of  cour- 
tesy which  they  generally  conclude  by  turning  up  the  whiles  of  their 
eyes,  and  making  other  gestures,  indicative  of  transport,  apparently  at 
the  thought  of  being  out  of  it  themselves.     From  all  this  it  is  pretty 
clear,  that  if  they  have  really  a  notion  of  such  a  thing  as  heaven,  they 
fancy  it  must  be  exclusively  peopled  with  Fire-Threateners;  and  as 
Foutenelle  said  that  even  man  made  God  in  his  own  likeness,  it  is  to  be 
supposed  that  the  Fire-Threateners  make  him  in  theirs.     What  a  hell 
of  a  paradise! 


THE  INDICATOR,  i  9^' 


There  are  several  varieties  of  this  creature,  all  equally  disagreeable  iti" 
their  natures,  though  not  in  their  personal  habits.  The  feriiale,  in  most 
instances,  seems  to  pique  herself  on  her  placidity,  in  proportion  to  the 
cruelties  of  which  she  may  happen  to  be  an  eye-witness.  These  are  the 
most  disgusting  specimens  of  the  whole  race;  The  most  curious  variety, 
however,  is  one  which  has  so  remarkable  a  resemblance  to  a  species  of 
monke)"-  recorded  in  Natural  History,  that  the  description  of  the  latter 
will  serve  for  that  of  the  former.  The  monkey  we  allude  to  is  called  the 
Preacher-Monkey,  as  the  Fire-Threatener  is  often  called  the  Field- 
Preacher.  Instead  of  fields,  however,  to  which  it  seems  to  have  a 
natural  antipathy,  the  Preacher  Fire-Threatener  now  chatters  and 
howls  in  regular  imitations  of  pulpits,  or  selects  a  spot  where  cross- 
roads unite,  and  stands  like  a  great  baboon,  making  mouths,  and  ges- 
tures, and  outcries  at  the  astonished  passengers.  Idle  boys  sometimes 
gather  round  and  plague  it;  but  pothing  can  induce  it  to  finish  its 
wretched  harangue  till  it  pleases  ;  and  at  every  pull  of  the  hair  or 
counter-grin  in  the  face,  it  puts  on  an  aspect  half  pfitient  half  malig- 
nant, as  much  as  to  say,  ^'  You  will  have  a  good  clawing  by  and  by." 

The  voice  of  the  Preacher-Monkey,  says  BufFon,  "  resounds  like  a 
drum,  and  is  heard  at  a  great  distance,"  Marcgrave  relates,  (Hist. 
Brasii,  p.  226.)  *'  that  every  morning  and  evening  tha  Ouarines 
(Preacher- Monkies)  assemble  in  the  woods  ;  that  one  of  them  takes  a' 
more  elevated  station,  and  gives  a  signal  with  his  hand  for  the  others' 
to  sit  around,  and  listen  to  him;  that,  when  he  perceives  them  to  be' 
all  seated,  he  begins  a  discourse  in  a  tone  so  loud  and  rapid  as  to  be 
heard  at  a  great  distance  ;  and  a  person  would  be  led  to  think  that  the' 
whole  were  crying  together  ;  that  all  the  rest,  however,  keep  the  most 
profound  silence  ;  that,  when  he  stops,  he  gives  a  signal  with  his  hand 
for  the  others  to  reply  ;  that,  in  an  instant  the  whole  cry  together,  tilt 
heicommands  sflence  by  another  signal,  which  they  obey  in  a  moment; 
tliat  the  first  resumes  his  discourses  or  song;  and  that,  after  heai'irig'^ 
him  attentively  for  a  considerable  time,  the  assembly  breaks  up,"       " 

This  proceeding,  which  Marcgrave  says  he  has  often  witnessed, 
Buffon  with  a  scepticism  becoming  his  inquiries,  is  inclined  td  regard^ 
as  exaggerated  ;  but  he  had  never  seen  the  Field-Preacher,  which  wfe' 
all  know  to 'exist.  Is  not  the  likeness  curious  ?  Some  African  nations 
think  that  apes  and  monkies  are  nothing  but  degenerate  men,  who  prc-< 
fend  to  be  dumb  that  they  may  not  be  set  to  work.  It  requires  no 
great  stretch  of  probability  to  conclude  the  Preacher-Monkey  to  be 
another  species  of  Field-Preacher,  with  notions  of  theology  and  divi-' 
iiity,  equally  brutal  and  unintelligible.  The  same  people  are  said  to 
worship  the  devil  out  of  fear, — that  is  io  say,  in  other  Avords,  to  make 
the  Supreme  J3eing  a  devil, — a  Dasmonisni  or  Diabololairi/,  which  looks 
very  like  the  terrified  homage  of  the  Fidd-Preacher.  The  Ouarine  or 
Preacher-Monkey  is  called  by  Linnssus  the  Beelzebub. 

Fear  and  selfishness,  but  chiefly  the  latter,  are  the  predisposing  qua- 
lities to  this  lamentable  degeneracy.  Those  in  whorn  fear  is  carried 
<o  excess,  rather  fancy  themselves  than  become  such.  It  is  a  disease 
like  that  of  Licantkropj^  in  which'  men  were  said  to  fancy  thejnselves 


too  THE  iNBrlCATOR. 

wolves;  and  i«  only  an  excess  of  the  morbid  tendency,  which  iacUnes 
hypochondriacs  and  other  people  of  bad  digestion  to  think  they  are 
dying  or  dead,  or  turned  into  something,  or  too  tall  to  go  nader  a 
bridge  without  stooping^,  or  too  large  for  the  room^  or  liable  to  be 
toasted  and  buttered,  &c.  These  fancies  are  removable  by  the  natural 
remedies  of  exercise,  temperance,  and  socialify  ;  but  an  excess  of  phy- 
sical weakness,  either  suffered  to  increase  by  the  individual,  or  made 
hereditary  by  his  thoughtless  progenitors,  will  sometimes  carry  the 
finest-minded  human  being  away,  trll  he  takes  himself  for  a  Fire- 
Threatener,  especially  if  he  gets  among  the  animals  themselves.  He 
may  then  die  or  lose  his  senses  out  of  sheer  horror ;  upon  which  all 
the  real  beasts  shall  set  up  a  howl  of  mixed  lamentajtijoja  and  t^iupaph, 
as  if  he  really  had  been,  one  of  their  bxeed.  •    ■         ,       . 


HOLIDAY  CHILDREN.  'i' 

Mi?.  iNDjcA-TOji, — One  of  the  most  pleasing  sights  at  ihia  ft^^JiU^; 
season  is,  the  group  of  boys  and  girls  returned  from  school.  6m  H}herp 
you  will,  a  cluster. of  their  joyous  chubby  faces  present  themselves  to. 
our  notice.  In  the  streets,  at  the  panorama,  or  playhouse,  o^r  elbows^ 
are  constantly  assailed  by  some  eager  nT^Uin  w^hjpse  leyias  just;p,eep,,b/e- 
math  ta  get  a  nearer  view.  t, 

I,  am,  more  delighted  in  watching  the  vivacious  workings  of  theic 
ingenujous  countenances  at  these  Christmas  shows,  than  at  the.^'gbts 
themselves.  , 

From  the  first  joyous  huzza,  and  loud  bjown  horns.,\^hioh  annxvance 
their  arrival,,  to  the  faint  attempts  at  similaif  mirth-on  their  retuipi>,  il^ 
am  interested  in  these  youngsters. 

Observe  the  line  of  chaiseS;  with  their  swarm-like  IpadlS- harry ing;to 
iiender  and  exulting  parents,  the  sickly  to  be  cherished,  the  strong  ta 
be  amused  ;  in  a  few  mornings  you  shall  see  them,  new  clothes,,  warm, 
gloves,  gathering  around  their  mother  at  every  toy-shop,  claiming  the 
promise^bat,  hoop,  top,  or  marbles;  mark  her  kind  smile  at  theic 
^xtacies;  her  prudent  shake  of  the  head  at  their  multitudinous  de- 
mands; her  gra,dual  yielding  as  they  coaxingly  drag  her  in;  her 
-patience  with  their  vfhims  and  clamour  while  they  turn  and  toss  oyer 
the,  play.-thingfS  as  n,ow  a  sword,  and  now  a  hoop  is  their  choice,  and 
like  their  elders  the  pp^^essioa  of  om  bauble,  does  but  fltiake  them  sigh 
^r, another. 

Yie^!?  the  fond  father,  his  pet  little  girl  by  the  hand,  his  bpys  walk- 
ing before  on  whom  his  proud  eye  rests,  while  ambitious  views  floa^ 
p!er  his  mind;  for  them,  and  make  him  but  half  attentive  to  their  re- 
peat^ci  inquiries;  while  at  the  Museum  or  Picture  Gallery,  his  expla- 
nations, are  interrupted  by  the  rapture  of  discovering  that  his  childreu 
a^e  already  ^eli  acguainted  with  the  difiereut  subjects  exhibited. 


THE  IMXICATORi  101 

Stretching  half  over  the  boxes  at  the  theatre,  adorned  by  maternal 
love,  see  their  enraptured  faces  now  turned  to  the  galleries  wondering 
at  their  height  and  at  the  number  qf  regularly  placed  heads  cpntamed 
In  (hem,  now  directed  towards  the  greeii  cloud  which  is  so  lingeringly 
kept  between  them  and  their  promised  bliss.  The  half-peeled  orange 
laid  aside  when  the  play  begins ;  their  anxiety  for  that  which  they  un- 
derstand ;  their  honest  laughter  which  runs  through  the  house  like  a. 
merry  peal  of  sweet  bells ;  the  fear  of  the  little  girl  lest  they  should 
discover  the  person  hid  behind  the  screen ;  the  exultation  of  the  boy 
when  the  hero  conquers. 

But  oh  the  rapture  when  the  pantomime  commences !  Ready  to  leap 
out  of  the  box,  they  joy  in  the  mischief  of  the  clown,  laugh  at  the 
thwacks  he  gets  for  his  mediingi,  and  feel  no  small  portion  of  contempt 
for  his  ignorance  in  not  knowing  that  hot  water  will  scald  and  go» 
powder  explode ;  while  with  head  aside  to  give  fresh  energy  to  the 
Strokes,  they  ring  their  little  palms  against  each  other  ia  testimony  of 
exuberant  delight. 

Who  can  behold  them  without  reflecting  on  the  many  passions  that 
now  lie  dormant  in  their  bosoms,  to  be  in  a  few  years  agitating  them- 
Eelves  and  the  world.  Here  the  coquet  begins  to  appear  in  the  atten- 
tion paid  to  a  lace  frock  or  kid  gloves  for  the  first  time  displayed,  or 
the  domestic  tyrant  in  the  selfish  boy,  who  snatches  the  largest  cake, 
or  thrusts  his  younger  brother  and  sister  from  the  best  place. 

At  no  season  of  the  year  are  their  holidays  so  replete  with  pleasures  ; 
ihe  expected  Christmas-box  from  grand-papa  and  grand-mamma;  plum- 
pudding  and  snap-dragon,  with  blind man's-buff  and  forfeits  ;  perhaps 
to  witness  a  juvenile  play  rehearsed  and  ranted  ;  galant^e-show  and 
drawing  for  twelfth-cake;  besides  Christmas-gambols  in  abundance, 
new  and  old.  ,  ;  '  • .  vt 

Even  the  poor  charity-iboy  at  this  s^son  feels  a  transient  glbWof 
cheerfulness,  as  with  pale  blue  face,  frost-nipped  hands,  and  ungreat- 
coated,  from  door  to  door  he  timidly  displays  the  unbjotted  scutcheon 
of  his  grapjiic  talents,  and  feels  that  the  pence  bestowed  are  his  own, 
and  that  for  once  in  his  life  he  may  taste  the  often  desired  tart,  ofspitt 
0,  top  which  no  one  can  snatch  from  him  in  capricious  tyranny.   " 

1  know  not  whether  it  be  the  dotage  of  age  coming  over  me,  but 
when  I  see  or  think  of  these  little  beings,  I  feel  as  a  child  again,  my 
heart  warms  to  them,  I  enter  into  their  joys  and  sorrows,  their  pas- 
times and  their  thousand  imaginings;  and  fancy  I  could  fly  a  kite  or 
wield  a,  bat  with  the  best  of  them;  nor  is  any  thing  more  refreshing  to 
me  after  much  intercourse  with  the  heartlessness  and  afFectatton  of  the 
world,  than  the  society  of  intelligent  and  amiable  children. 

Desiring  to  be  kindly  remembered  to  your  little  folk,  Mr.  Indicator, 
(if  you  have  any)  and  Wishing  them  and  you  abundance  of  fun  and 
pastime  this  Christmas,  I  re^na.5^^Jy9^I; jinjcpre  well-wisher^ 

. -aiA '•-'  .'i-):r;A  :•  An.   Old   BoY. 


102  THE  rNDrCATOR. 

A  feYLVAN  SURPRISE. 

Time  and  place  give  CTcry  thing  its  propriety.  Strolling  one  day  in 
Twickenham  meadows,  I  was  struck  with  the  appearance  of  something 
dasky  on  upon  the' grass,  "which  my  eye  could  not  immediately  reduce 
into  a  shape.  Going  nearer,  I  discovered  the  cause  of  the  phenomenon. 
Id  the  midst  of  the  most  rural  scene  in  the  world,  the  day  glorious  over, 
head,  the  wave  of  Father  Thames  rippling  deliciously  by  hitn,  lay 
outstretched  at  his  ease  upon  Nature's  Terdajat.CH,rpefe—T^-qI}imney- 

swepper:—  _      :-.^  .j^  ...p'!^.!;!^/ /.!,u  ,f•^ V  •! 

A  ?pot  lilte  wTiTch  "    ^      ' 
■    '-  Astronomer  in  the  sun's  Iticent  orb 

:     Tlirough  liis  glaz-'d  optic  tube  yel  never  saw.  ' 

ireasorvin  nature  why  a  chimney-isweeper  shpuld  pot  in- 
for  rural  bhjects,  but  somehow  the  ideas  were  discordant. 
It  struck  me  like  an  inartificial  discord  in  miisic.  It  was  a  cdmbina- 
tion  of  urbs  in  iiire^  which  my  experience  had  aot  prepared  t»e  to 
auticipate.    '   '•     '''    "■    '.       ';     ,  ■   ...      .  ... 


There  is  rio 
dijlge  a  taste 


,.ilJ  rot  g>. 
a?,  oilv/  ,<  . 
i  -'AN  AMERICAN' 'WAR  FOR  HELEN. 

I  have,  in  my  :poS|Se$»,iQn  a  curious  volume. of  LatiFt.terses,  which  I 
belleyeto  be  uniqde.  Jt  is  entitled  Ahxandri  Fulioni  Scdti  Epigram-i 
malorumlibri  quinque.  It;  purports  to  be  printed  at  Perth,  and  bears 
date  leys'. ,  hy  the  appellation  which  the  author  gives  himself  in  the 
preface,  kifpodidasculus,  I  suppose  hina  to  have  been  usher  at  some 
school.,  Jtjs  ,^i9^ju»C)0|rait5Q!t,.thijig'  now  adkys.for'persoinsiitoncer'ned 
jnacadeimrlesto.  "affeipti;^  literary  reputation  in  the\ri*y.of  their,  tradj^. 
'I'jttei  "fflastei^;  of;, a  spmiuaryfofia  limited  number  of  pu^pilsat  Isling- 
tipn^^'  l^jtely;  pytvfoEth  an;.editiQr>  of  that  scarce  tract^ilte^.  iBfegy  in  a 
Co^ni^  'phu')xh^;^kld  '{to  fiS({]h\s  -oyvn  Y,'or.dsJy  rW.ith-  Botes- and  heiid^ 
iitTPs  !—^]^j;,  to, <JU,r,)author.'' These,  epigrams  pf  jAlexaHder;  J'u.ltoni^ 
Scotcim^aByh^veHttle,  remarkable  in  them  biesidesfixtreme  dulness  dnd 
insipidity;  but  there  is  .oiie, which,  by  its  being  .marshalled  in  the 
froRt  ofthe  volume,  jseeras  to  have.b-eetv  the  daf  ling  0%  it»  parent,  and 
for  itsiexquisite  flatness,  and  the  surprising  strike  of  anachronism  with 
■which  it  h  pointed,  deserves  to  be  rose ui?d  from  oblivioo.  v-Jt'-is  acU 
^jl^s^tdj;  like  many  of  the  others,  to  a  fair,  it*pe,; — 

,,-:-.  AD  ;mRIUIJV3f   tVAM  JLVtOU^  ,, 

,-U>)»r)-ili;'i  ..  ■     ; '  , 

J  -J  -i.^  J^oyerunt  bellaolimHeleiise  decor ,a»q»ie,ifenu9ta»  -u  ir07'^i!i 

'  '  ^'  Enropen  inter  frugit'eramque  Asiam.  -  .-..^ 

•Tarn  boon,  qrtam  fii,  lanti  priidtVis,  ^in'illa  fuissfeT, 

.-<  oil    ^l'-   V  Ad  lites  issent  Africa  et  America  ! 

"Which,  in  humble  imitation  of.  mine  author's  peculiar  porerly  of  stile, 
1  have  Tcnturcd  thus  to  render  into  English  : — 


THE  iNDICATOR.  103 

■     ysv.'.J    ?.v,  ,  THB  AUTHOR  TO    HIS    MOGGY.    '-      '.    l.-rr'U    ,  L  )r:rrT ';.!..  "-^ 

>    rftlW    ,  For  love's  illustrious  cause,  and  Helen's  charB[|«,'.nih;i    jfjOljl'KJ  '^ilt 
All  Europe  and  all  Asia  rusli'd  to  arms.  -'Hfiu  li  lo  vjilWirilo? 

Had  she  wiih  Uiese  thv  polished  sense  combin'dk      ^   »     ,^         (,  jv' 
All  Afric  aftd  America  had  jdiu'd-J  -  -^'^^^i-^^^  tmiy^A^^i 

The  happy  idea  of  aa  American  war  undertaken  in  the  cause  of  beauty 
ought  certainly  to  recommead  the  author's  memory  to  the  country- 
men of  Madison  and  Jefferson  ;  and  the  bold  anticipation  of  tlie  dis- 
covery of  that  Continent  in  the  time  of  the  Trojau  War  is  a  flight  be- 
yond the  Sibyll's  books,  r,     ,  . 

■j/rrrtaan   ,flr     r--.       :■.■  .-jn-r  -lo  «roii  ;;jo«' T/in-a  ar.v  v.'   ^■^■m-j.-j -.■.:,:: 

'  '■''    i-i-    /■■■•nf'.i/'J.i^  " 

GUNPO^'DEli  PLOT.;     I 

Some  days  before  the  fatal  stroke  should  be  given,  Master  Keys£a 
conspirator]  being  it  Tichmer3h,rin  Northamptonshire,  at  the  house  of 
Mr.  Gilbert  Pickering,  his  brother-in-law,  (but  of  a  different  religion, 
as  a  true  Protestant')  siiddenly  whipped  odt  his  swojd,  and  in  merrir 
ment  made  many  offers  therevvith  at  the  heads,"  necks,  and  sides,  of 
many  gentlemen  and  gentlewomen  then  in  the  company.  This  thea 
was  taken  as  a  mere  frolic,  and  for  the  present,  passed  accordingly; 
but  afterwards,  when  the  treason  was  discovered,  such  as  remembered 
his  gestures,  thought  thereby  he  did  act  what  he  intended  to  do  (if 
the  plot  had  took  effect)  hack  and  hew,  kill  and  slay,  all  eminent  per- 
sons of  a  different  religion  from  themselves. — Fuller's  Church  Hiilorxj. 

PURNIN'G 'OF  ilEftE'nCS, 

Indeed  such  burning  of  heretics  much,  startled  common  people, 
pitying  all  in  pain,  and  prone  to  asperse  justice  itself  with  cruelty,  be- 
cause of  the  novelty  and  hideousness  of  the  punishment.  And  the 
purblind  eyes  of  vulgar  judgments  looked  only  at  what  was  next  to 
them  (the  suffering  itselfj  which  they  beheld  with  compassion,  not 
minding  the  demerit  of  the  guilt  which  deserved  the  same.  Besides, 
such  being  unable  to  distinguish  betwixt  constancy  and  obstinacy,  were 
ready  to  entertain  good  thoughts  even  of  the  opinions  of  those  heretics, 
who  sealed  them  so  manfully  with  their  blood.  Wherefore  King 
James  [the  first]  politickly  preferred, /  that  heretics  heireafter,*  thus 

*  P6sit«v«?ly  one  is  at  a  loss  which  «o  ntlnriire  most  in  this  passage ;  tire  tender 
mercies  of  the  King,  or  the  regretful  look  which  this  old  Di«ine  sseems  to  have  cast 
back  upon  (he  extingoivhed  fires  of'Smithfietd.  Through  all  the  coyness  of  ihe 
oonfpssion,  and  the  little  more  than  hints  which  he  broaches  on  this  delicate  siib- 
ject,  it  is  easy  to  discover,  that  those  smothered  brands  had  left  as  strong  a  relish 
and  savor  of  fire  in  his  nostrils,  as  the  odour  of  the  old  fleshpots  dixl  upon  the 
ptiU^es  of  the  rebellious  mannii-sick  Jews.  He  would  fain  be  blowing  up  the  dead 
coals  agaiu,  though  he  otiers  at  it  reluctantly,  and  lights  the  pyre  (as  the  ancients 
did  in  their  funeral  rites)  with  averted  eyes.  Yet  F<iller  appears  to  have  been  a 
humane  kind-hearted  man  f where  heretics  were  not  concerned);  and  could  see  the 
enormitv  of  "  hacking  and  hewing"  "  killing  and  slayinij"  persoiu  of  aa  "  oppo- 
aiie  faith,"  when  tha'  faith  was  his  owa. 


i04  THE  INDICATOR. 

condemned,  should  silently  and  privatdy  waste  themselres  away  In 
the  prison,  rather,  than  to  grac6  them,  and  amuse  others,  with  (he 
solemnity  of  a  public  executwn,  which  rn  popular  judgments  usurped 
the  honour  of  a  persecution.— iFwKer's  Church  Hiitor-y. 


■r,i?   hu 


...n    », 


SONG 


^SUGGESTED  BT  TBB  FIRST  VOUR   LINES   OF  THE    VENETIAN   AIR,    BEGTNIinva 
*'AE  UONECA   TI  EAI." 

If  yon  become  a  nun,  dear, 

A  friar  I  will  be ; 
In  any  crell  you  run,  Ae&t, 

.  Pray  look  behind  for  me.  ' 

Tl»e  T0*®»  of  bourse,  turns  pale  too; 
Tlie  doves  all  lake  the  veil  too; 
[       '  The  blind  will  see  tlie  shew  : 

What !  you  become  a  nun,  my  dear  ? 

*  I'll  not  belfeve  it,  no. 

/.:■;  .  ,  ■ 

If  you  become  a:  nun,  dear, 
■    '  The  bishop  Love  will  be; 

'')    '  The  Cupids  every  one,  dear, 

*■  '    .  Will  chaunt  "  We  trust  in  thee:" 

TheiTicense  will  go  sighing, 
The  candles  fall  a  dying, 
The  water  turn  to  wine: 
What !  you  go  take  the  vows,  my  dear ! 
You  may— -but  they'll  be  mine. 

id:   ... 


Prnited  and  published  by  Josii!#>B  ApPley:4rd,  No.  19i  Catherine-street,  Strand. 

Price  2d. — And  sold  also  by  A.  Gliddon,  Importer  of  Snuffs,  No.  31,  Tavistock- 

.,  sU;Ref,  Covent-garden.    Orders  received  at  thje  above  pJaces>  end  by  all  Book- 

a^l^j-rs  and  Newsmen,  .i;    .  -lo  .; 


THE    INDICATOR. 


There  he  arriving  round  ahout  doth  ftie. 
And  taJves  survey  with  bu«ie  curious  eye: 
Now  this,  now  that,  lie  tasteth  teuderiy. 


No.LXVI^WEDNESDAY,  JANUARY  10th,  1621. 


AGAINST^  FANTASTICAL  SCRUPLENESS. 

"  Play  thou  ihe  piood  fellow  !  seek  none  to  misdeem  i 
Disdain  not  tlie  honest,  ihoug^h  merry  they  seem  ; 
For  ofteniinies  seen,  no  more  very  a  knave. 
Than  he  that  doth  counterfeit  most  to  be  grave." 

Tnsser'i  five  Hundred  Good  Points  of  Hushandty. 

I  am  an  old  man,  Mr.  Indicator,  and,  what  is  worse,  an  old- 
fashioned  one,  and  fond  of  old  times:  as  Mr.  Hardcastle  says,  "I 
like  every  thing  that  is  old— old  friends,  old  wines,  old  books;"  and 
as  I  h^ve  no  old  wifu  to  love,  I  like  old  customs  when  they  are  kindly 
ones;  and,  by  the  way,  I  like  my  old  friend  Goldsmith's  comedy  as 
well  as  any  one  that  has  been  written  since.  To  letyoa  into  a  secret, 
I  liked  Quick  as  well  in  Tony,  as  Mr.  B— — r  or  Mr,  L  ■  ■  n,  who 
have  played  that  character  latterly.  I  cannot  say  as  moch  for  Bulke- 
ley's  Miss  Hardcastle:  I  think  Jordan  and  Duncan  are  her  equals 
both  as  women  and  actresses ;  but  that  may  be  only  a  foolish  fondness 
I  have  for  the  sex,  which  inclines  me  to  think  well  of  them  all.  But 
this  is  digressive,  and  altogether  from  the  purpose.  It  is  my  opinion, 
Mr.  Indicator,  that  you  likewise  are  fond  of  old  customs,  since,  if 
my  memory  do  not  fail  me  (which  may  be  the  case  at  my  age),  you, 
or  some  one  of  your  name,  wrote  in  praise  of,  and  recommending  the 
revival  of  several  neglected  ancient  usages  practised  by  our  forefathers, 
I  remember  now  it  was  in  the  Examiner  ;  but  as  my  man  Robin  is  not 
in  the  way  to  reach  down  the  volume  (for  I  bind  the  Examiners  yearly), 
I,  cannot  refer  to  the  date.  It  was  probably  some  ancient  person  o£ 
your  house,  who,  like  myself,  knew  and  rejoiced  in  the  Christmas 
practices  some  fifty  or  sixty  years  back ;  but  be  that  a$  it  may,  I  was 
much  pleased  with  these  papers  ;  and  several  of  my  friends  admired 
them  also,  and  practised  them  in  part,  substituting  a  round  game  for 
whist,  increasing  the  number  of  youthful  visitors  at  their  parties,  and 

VOE.  If, 


106  THE  INDICATOR. 

occasion.ally  allowing  tlio  young  people  a  dance :  but  still,  Mr.  In- 
dicator, it  was  nothing  like  the  olden  times,  when  every  heart  in  the 
honse  was  exhilirated  by  kindness  and  festivity.     It  was  in  vain  they 
directly  or  indirectly  told  me  that  mine  was  merely  the  fastidiousness 
of  age,  which  thinks  nothing  of  the  present  day  at  a|l  comparable  to 
that,  which" having  occurred  while  hop^  ancJ-plea'siire  Were  strong  and 
new  with  us,  is  for  that  reason  remembered  with  fond  regret.     I  felt 
there  was  something  wanting— something  of  the  cordiality,  the  ease  of 
former  times,  when  every  one,  content  to  appear  in  his  own  station, 
was  freed  from  the  painful  endeavour  oi  shewing  off  a.s  a  superior 
person,  either  in  riches,  knowledge,  or  polite  etiquette  ;  which  said 
shewing  off  generally  spoils  the  society  of  the  present  day.     If  an  old 
man  like  myself,  for  instance,  visits  in  a  large  respectable  family,  he 
is  eternally  teased  with  well-meant  excuses  from  the  lady  of  the  house 
for  giving  him  nothing  but  a  plain  dinner,  although  that  is  precisely 
what  he  likes,  and  which  he  knows  to  be  fittest  for  a  large  family,  who 
cannot  be  fed  upon  French  dishes  and  nicknacks.  '  Then,  if  you  ask 
your  old  friend's  child  to  get  you  a  glass  of  wine,  or  a  piece  of  bread, 
at  dinner,  you  are  thought  little  better  than  a  vulgarian,  and  your  re-, 
quest,  instead   of  being  chearfully  complied  with,  and  drawing  from 
the  pleased  old  man,  in  return,  a  gallant  wish,  or  good-humoured 
chuck  of  the  chin,  is  forv^arded  to  the  servant  with  a  haughty—"  Ro- 
bert, don't  you  see  Mr.  So  and  So  wants  bread  !"     You  are  likewise 
expected  to  be  deeply  read  in  ancient  and  modern  literature  (at  least 
as  far  as  Reviews  go),  and  a  critic  of  course,  upon  authors,  players, 
&c.  &c.« — the  merits  of  whom  every  one  can  discuss  with  infinite  ease 
and  promptitude,  who  has  read  the  fashionable  novels:  as  to  an  old 
story,  or  an  anecdote  of  one's  youth,  it  is  considered  past  endurance 
in  all  polite  companies.     But  the  greatest  dread  of  all  persons  of  the 
present  day,  is  to  commit  themselves  in  any  way  that  might  be  deemed 
vulgar,  under  which  name  most  of  the  Christmas  games  and  pastimes 
are  stigmatised  and  abolished.      Now,  Mr.  Indicator,  I  should  not 
lieed  this  affectation  in  persons,  who,  having  sprung  from  a  low  origin 
by  the  mere  weight  of  a  purse,  set  up  for  Gentry,  and  stylish  people — ■ 
those  who  with  Goldsmith's  bear-leader  "  hates  every  thing  as  is  W;" 
but  for  persons  who  are  well  educated,  and  of  an  honest,  kindly  pa- 
rentage, to  indulge  in  this  vanity,  I  am  really  ashamed  of  them :  and 
this  brings  me  to  the  grievance  which  caused  me  to  trouble  you  with 
so  long  a  letter,  for  they  will  mind  what  you  say,  because  it  appears 
in  a  *iorfe?7i  publication;  whereas  if  I  quote  from  the  Spectator   or 
Tatler,  I  am  reminded  that  these  aje  writers  whose  notions  are  gone 
by,  that  manners  have  changed  as  well  as  fashions,  and  that  it  Avould 
be  as  ridiculous  to  copy  the  usages  of  those  times,  as  it  would  be  to 
appear  at  the  Opera  in  a  wig  like  Sir  Richard  Steele's,  or  in  a  petti- 
coat such  as  the  one  under  which  he  sat  in  judgment,  as  described  in 
the  paper  No.  116  of  the  Tatler.     This  provokes  me  more  than  any 
thing,  because  the  cases  are  not  parallel  ;  and  the  sophisticating  rogues 
are   sure   to  have  the  laugh  all  on  their  side  of  the  question.     The 
yioang  men  rub  up  their  well-looking  unpowdered  heads,  and  the 


THE  INDICATOE.  IQf 

girls  glance  with  conscious  exultation,  at  their  fine  shapes,  no 
honger  concealed  by  Avhalebone  fences, — for  there's  no  denying 
that  the  present  dress  is  infinitely  more  becoming  to  a  pretty 
woman,  although  the  trimness  of  the  waist  in  1765,  and  the 
^  snowy  tucker,  had  its  attractions.  But  I  am  eternally  wandering, 
and  not  to  tire  you,  my  only  resource  is  to  plunge  at  once  into 
the  subject  of  my  particular  complaint.  You  must  know  theii,  I 
am  intimate  with  a  very  amiable  family,  who,  before  monied  men 
were  preferred  to  small  landholders,  held  a  higher  rank  in  society 
than  they  do  now,  but  who  are  still  rich  enough  to  enjoy  all  the 
domestic  comforts  of  rational  independence.  Well,  Sir,  I  generally 
pass  a  few  days  with  my  old  friend  and  his  family  every  Christmas, 
and  in  the  evening,  installed  in  an  arm  chair  by  the  chimney-corner, 
my  friend  and  I  discourse  of  friends  and  beauties  faded  from  all  but 
our  memories,  though  I  have  the  advantage  over  him  in  that  respect, 
as  my  heart  palpitated  for  half  the  reigning  toasts  before  he  had  quitted 
school.  .  While  the  younger  children  gather  round  rne,  place  their 
iittle  stool  for  my  feet,  and  if  I  nod  in  my  chair,  the  rogues  will  some- 
times play  rae  sly  tricks;  and  little  Fanny,  who  knows  she  is  a  fa- 
vourite, will  climb  on  my  knee,  and  wake  me  with  a  soft  kiss,  entreat- 
ing me  ta  tell  the  story  about  Robin  Hood,  or  of  the  children  whom 
the  redbreast  "  painfully  did  cover  o'er  with  leaves  :"-r-this,  to  my 
mind,  Mr.  Indicator,  is  to  be  delightfully  situated.  Sir,  there  is 
nothing  like  it  for  an  old  man ;  and  should  you  live  to  my  age,  I  trust 
you  may  think  so  too.  Then,  Sir,  on  these  occasions  I  love  to  set  the 
elder  boys  and  girls  at  some  innocent  fun  or  cheerful  pastime,  and  as 
there  was  no  music  to  which  they  could  dance  the  other  night,  I  pro- 
posed blindman's-bufF,  or  a  game  at  forfeits,  demanding  at  the  same 
time  where  was  the  old  ensignia  of  Christmas,  the  misletoe ;  accusing 
the  girls  with  having  neglected  the  ancient  British  custom  of  paying 
tribute  under  its  peal-blossomed  boughs — but  I  was  stopped  short  by 
a  ■"Dear  Sir,  it  is  so  vulgar,  no  one  suffer-s  it  now  but  in  the  kitchen." 
The  mother  assured  me  that  she  herself  liad  never  thought  any  harm 
of  the  bough,  but  that  several  very  genteel  families  of  her  acquaintance 
had  assured  her  it  was  very  unbecoming,  and  that  forfeits  were  fit  for 
none  but  country  hoydens  and  old-fashioned  folk  ;  but  that  she  always 
had  one  in  the  kitchen,  for  the  sake  of  keeping  up  old  customs. 

Now,  Mr.  Indicator,  do  you  pray  inform  them,  that  they  are  doing 
great  injustice  to  this  druidical  symbol ;  that  the  fashion  of  decorating 
Avifh  it  the  parlour  or  drawing-room  is  not  so  vulgar  as  their  would-be- 
fine  friends  insinuate,  but  is  of  high  and  grave  origin  ;  that  the  girls 
disliking  forfeits  and  their  consequences  is  all  a  pretence,  for  youth 
will  be  youth  still.  You  might  likewise  hint  to  mothers,  that  if  the 
kitchen  is  the  only  place  where  misletoe  is  to  be  allowed,  their  sons, 
and  even  their  husbands,  may  be  found  there  oftener  than  may  be 
agreeable  to  these  ouer-delicate  matrons.  It  is  far  from  my  intention 
to  quarrel  with  any  real  refinement  in  female  conduct^  but  for  heaven's 
s;ike  let  us  not  have  the  cant  of  Puritanism  among  us  again,  destroying 
tliat  which. is  innocent  and  gay,  and  substituting  hypocrisy  and  gross- 


108  THE  INDICATOR. 

ness  in  its  stead.  If  parents  will  not  countenance  the  innocefit  pastimes 
©f  their  oflFspring,  rendering  home  doll  and  distastefal,  depend  upon  it 
the  young  people  will  seek  amusements  elsewhere,  probably  of  a  more 
dangerous  tendency.  Now  do,  Mr.  Indicator,  use  your  powerful  in- 
fluence with  your  readers,  and  prevent  any  future  cause  of  complaint 
on  this  subject  from  your  friend  and  admirer, 

Bromptoji,  Jan.  5,  1821.  Frank  Evergreen. 


«  FUIMUS  TROES.    THE  TRUE  TROJANS. 

tieing  a  Slory  of  the  Britains'  valour  at  the  Tiornans"  first  Invasion."     Printed  1633. 

Author  unknown. 

Intermixed  with  a  great  deal  of  false  thought  and  affected  pathos, 
this  old  play  abounds  in  passages  of  unequivocal  beauty  and  enthu- 
siasm. Its  opening  scene,  or  prologue,  spoken  by  Mercury,  has  a  fiue 
line  which  Pope  a<ppears  to  have  been  not  insensible  to  ;— 

As  "in  the  vaiilti<  of  tliis  bifj-beTiied  earth 
Are  diinfreons,  whipp, and  chains,  for  wicked  ghosts; 
So  fair  Elysian  fields,  « here  spot le-ss  souls 
Do  bathe  tliemselves  in  bliss.     Among  tlie  rest. 
Two  pleasant  groves  by  two  sorts  are  possest. 
One  by  trne  lovers  crow n'd  with  myrtle  bowghs, 
Who  hand  in  hand  sinfjf  preans  of  their  joy  j 
Brave  soldiers  h<>ld  the  second,  clad  in  st;ael,, 
Whose  gUttering  arms  brighten  those  gloomy  slmdes 
In  lieu  of  starry  lights*. 

Those  sple^idid  lines  in  Comus,  "  Beauty  is  Nature's  brag,"  &c. 
are  tlcarly  traceable  to  the  following  fantastical  ones  in  this  play  ;— 

The  Court  a  wardrolie  is  of  living  sliapes:  t 
And  ladies  are  the  tissqp-spang'Ied  snits, 
Which  Nature  wears  qn  festival  high  day?. 

As  this  drama  h^s  escaped  the  notice  of  the  Editor  of  the  "  Dra- 
matic Specimens,"  a  few  more  extracts  may  not  be  disagreeable  to 
the  poetical  readers  of  the  Indicator. 

SONG    OF    THE    BRXMDS. 

DraWTiear  ye  heavenly  powers, 
Who  dwell  in  starry  bowers  ; 
Ai>d  ye  who  in  the  deep 
On  mossy  pillows  slee|>; 
And  ye  who  keep  thj'  center, 
W^here  never  light  did  enter; 

*  Hy  the  heroes' armed  shades, 

Glittering  through  the  gloomy  glados. 

Ode  on  6t.  CccitkiH  Day, 
t  Dresses. 


THE  INDICATOIl.  IW 

And  ye  wtiose  habitations 

Are  still  among  tlie  naiibiia, 

To  see  and  liear  our  doings, 

Otir  birlhs,  our  wars,  our  wooings ; 

Behold  our  present  p'rief. 

Relief  doMi  bejr  relief. 

By  the  vervain  and  iunary. 

By  fern-seed  planetary. 

By  the  dreadtnl  misletoe 

Which  doth  on  holy  oak  5;row, 

Draw  near,  draw  near,  draw  near. 

Help  US  beset  witli  danger, 
And  turn  away  your  anger; 
Help  us  begirt  with  trouble. 
Arid  now  your  mercy  double  ; 
Help  us  opprest  with  sorrow. 
And  fight  for  us  to-morrow. 
Let  fire  ( onsume  the  foeman, 
L''t  air  infect  the  Roman, 
Let  seas  iutomb  their  fury. 
Let  gaping  earth  them  bury, 
Let  fire  and  air  and  waler 
And  earth  conspire  (heir  slaughter. 
By  the  vervain,  &c- 

We'll  praise  then  your  great  power 
Each  month,  each  day,  each  hour, 
And  blaze  in  lasting  story 
Your  honour  and  your  glory. 
High  altars  lost  iti  vapour. 
Young  heifers  free  from  labour. 
White  lambs  for  suck  stiil  crying. 
Shall  make  your  music  dying. 
The  hoys  and  girls  arvund. 
With  honeysuckles  crown'd. 
The  bards  with  harp  and  rhiming. 
Green  bays  their  brows  entwining. 
Sweet  tun*  and  sweeter  ditty, 
Shall  chaunt  your  gracious  pity. 
By  the  vervain,  &c. 


INVOCATION    OF   THE   SAME   TO   THE   MOON. 

Thou  Queen  of  Heaven,  commandress  of  the  deep, 

L«dy  of  lakes,  regent  of  woods  and  deer; 

A  lamp  dispelling  irksome  night;  the  source 

Of  genernble  moisture;  at  whose  feet 

AVait  twenty  thousand  Naiades:  thy  crescent 

Brute  elephants  adore;  and  man  doth  feel 

Thy  force  run  through  the  zodiac  of  his  limbs: 

()  thou  first  guide  of  Brutus  to  this  isle. 

Drive  back  these  proud  usurpers  from  this  isle — 

Whether  the  name  of  Cynthia's  silver  globe, 

Or  chaste  Diana  with  a  gilded  quiver; 

Or  dread  Proserpina,  stern  Dis's  spouse; 

Or  soft  Lucina,  <:aird  in  child-bed  throes. 

Doth  thee  delight.     Rise  with  a  glorious  face. 

Green  drops  of  Nereus  trickling  down  thy  cheeks; 

And  with  bright  horns,  united  in  full  orb. 

Toss  high  the  seas,  with  billows  beat  the  banks; 

Conjure  up  Neptune,  and  the  Eoliau  slaves; 


It9  THK  INtHCATOR. 

Contract  holli  nijilit  and  winter  in  n  storm. — 

That  Romans  lose  tlieir  wjiy,  and  sooner  It.ud 

At  sad  Averniis'  tlian  at  Albion'!"  strand. 

So  tnay'st  ttiou  shun  tlie  Drufion's  liead  and  tail ! 

So  moy  Endymion  snort  on  Latmian  bed! 

So  fnay  tlie  fair  gnme  fall  before  thy  bow  1 — 

Shed  light  on  iis,  but  light'ning  on  our  foe. 


FUNERAL  SPERcn    OTER    NENNIUS    DEAD. 

Set  down  that  Jie»vy  load  with  heavier  hearts — 

Could  virtuons  valour,  honotirable  ihoufrhts; 

A  noble  scorn  of  fortnne,  pride,  and  death; 

Myriads  of  vows  and  prayers  sent  to  heaven  ; 

C'lulJ  country's  love,  or  Britain's  genius,  save 

A  mortal  man  from  sleeping  in  his  {jrave, 

Then  liad'>i  thou  lived,  great  Nonnitis,  and  oiit-ltvedl- 

TUe  smooth-tongned  Greek.     But  we  may  more  envy. 

And  less  bewail  thy  loss,  since  thou  didst  fall 

C)ii  Honour's  lofty  field-befl,  on  winch  stage 

Never  did  worthy  act  a  statelier  part, — 

Kor  durst  pale  Death  approach  with  cypress  sad. 

Till  liouriahing  bays  thy  conquering  temples  clad. 


ANDBOGEl'S    OFFERS  TO  RESIGN    THE    CROWN    OF  BRITAIN  TO  HIS  YOUNGER 
BROTHER  THEMANLIUS,  Wflieil  THE  LATTER  REFUSES. 

y4t)d.    1  know  their*  hafr.qd  just;  pndjif re  reai^i* 
All  ii'v  birth-right  to.  thee,  my  second  self. 
1  mii-it  forsake  :riy  country's  sight,  and  seek 
!NtHv  fortunes  with  this  emperor,  in  iiope 
'l"o  he  raised  up  by  his  now  rising  wheel. 

Them.   O  do  not  so,  dear  brother!  so  to  purt, 
Were  to  divide  one  individual  soul. 
Nor  think  nfie  so  ambitious.     I  can  live 
A  private  life,  and  see  a  rggal  ctown 
"With  noinore  envy  than  I  see  the  sun 
(ilitter  above  me.     Let  not  Lnd's  two  sons 
Be  parted  by  a  sea.       *        *       *     •  *       ♦ 
For  iny  "ake  stay  at  home.     \Vhy  will  yon  fly  ? 
'j'liink  you  a  step-dame  soil  gives  sweeter  sap  ? 

And.   Yes ,      .  ,  ,,   ,      .... 

For  fVees  transplfinied  Jo  more  goodlv  grow. 

Them.   And  I'll  count  men  but  stocks,  rth'^n  they  do  sf>.  • 

*  ^  *:  'H  ^   ■  «  ««  «f 

*  The  people  wljom  he  had  ofFend-id  by  siding  with  the  invaders. 

.  +  Milton  has  told  tlis  story  of  the  Brothers  in  his  History,  after  Geoffrey  of 
Monmouth;  and  it  is  the;  subject  of  Mr.  Wordsworth's  noble  poem  of  Artegal  antV 
Klidure.  If  we  conld  believe  in  such  a  process  as  anti-burlesque,  one  might  ima- 
citn"  that  this  last-namciJ  author  had  dcvaltxl\\'\^  well-known  passage  of  the  mnnn- 
lain's  echoing  back  the  lady's  vj:)ice,  in  the  poem  to  Joanna,  from  n  perusal  of  the 
ex<|iii»ite  bombast  in  another  passage  ef  this  same  old  play,  where  Mi»rs  is  invoked 
iu  the  following  strains  : — 

_       .  Burst  Janus'  prison. 

Roar  as  thou  didst  tjt  Troy,  drown  Stentor's  voice 

By  muoy  eighths,  v^hich  I'indus  may  re-beat. 

Which  Caucasus  may  as  a  catch  repeat, 

And  'I'auru*  lough  ihe  shiti"  :  that  pigmies  smidt 
,  May  squeak  "  it  ihuuJeis,"  uiid  dive  into  boroughs. 


TilE  INDICATOR.  Ill 


TRANSLATION  FROM  MILTGN  INTO  WELSH. 

•  We  are  going  to  do  a  thing  very  common  with  critics  ;*— we  are 
about  to  speak  of  a  work  we  do  not  understand.  Wiiat  is  not  «d 
common  however,  we  are  not  sjoing  to  condemn  it.  On  the  contrary,' 
the  evident  spirit  under  which  it  is  written,  gives  it  a  very  advantageous' 
character  in  our  opinion  ;  and  we  shall  proce<^l  to  shew  those  eminent 
and  dissatisfied  persons,  how  possible  it  i's  by  the  help  of  a  little  good- 
humour  and  modesty  to  be  pleased  instead  of  provoked, -and  ttf  enjoy  : 
one's  imagination  instead  of  resenting  one's  ignorance.'  :    5 

■  The  reader  it  aware  pierhaps,  that  there  is  a  kind  of  Poetif^al  Order 
existing  among  our  NVelsh  brethren,  the  object  of  which  ig  to  ktfep  ap 
the  genius  as  well  as  remembrance  of  their  ancient  Bards..  The  mem-' 
bers  look  upon  themselves,  in  love  at  least,  as  their  soKcessors  j  take- 
the  same  title  of  Bards  ;  distribute  harps  as  prizes  ;  tind  endfearour  to 
catch  the  reflection  of  their  old  fire  on  the  samfe-  mountains.  Nor  is 
this  siecond-hand  inspiration,  we  dare  say,  without  the  occasioRal  pro- 
duction of  something  fine.  In  a  populous  modern  city,  with  its  so- 
phistications, such  an  establishment  might  be  regarded  as  a  mere  game 
at  antiques.  But  in  persons  of  simplicity  of  life  and  earnestness  of ' 
intention,  especially  in  solitudes  peopled  with  grand  human  recollec- 
tions, it  is  difficult  to  love  any  thing  fervently,  and  never  speak  of  it 
in  a  worthy  manner.  We  have  seen  poems  in  the  English  language 
written  by  Welshmen  of  this  character,  which  were  as  good  as  some  of 
the  English  productions  of  Burns  ;  and  the  inference  is,  that  In  their 
own  language,  and  on  the  subject  of  their  own  affections,  they  have  not 
always  produced  poetry  unworthy  of  ranking  with  his  Scotch.  Even 
upon  subjects  of  mere  antiquity,  the  iflspiration  above-mentioned  may 
act  upon  them  as  that  of  the  great  poets  of  Greece  and  Italy  has 
acted  upon  their  own.  Great  times  and  men  may  literally  be  said, 
never  to  die  in  point  of  effect.  Their  touch  reaches  us  from  afar. 
Their  eye  is  upon  us  out  of  the  clouds  of  time.  We  feel  their  memory 
in  our  ears,  like  the  tremble  of  an  eternal  song.  If  their  own  works 
help  to  divert  us  from  the  more  natural  soil  out  of  which  they  drew 
the  flowers  and  fountains  of  their  immortality,  they  serve  to  create  a 
new  stratum  of  fertility,  not  so  fine  indeed  as  the  other,  but  still  fine 
and  abundant,  and  full  of  a  second  vitality.  Death  itself  helps  to 
beautify  them.  We  walk  among  their  memories,  as  we  do  among  the 
leaves  of  autumn,  or  the  ruins  of  great  places  :  and  supply  the  want 
of  present  perfection  with  the  love  of  that  which  is  past. 

In  our  youth,  we  met  with  one  of  the  Modern  Welsh  Bards,  who 
had  all  the  character  we  speak  of.  lie  was  a  man  of  primaeval  simpli- 
city of  manners ;  that  is  to  say,  one  who  without  any  of  (he  conven- 

As  another  instance  of  tlie  same  sort  of  stuff  not  iinfrequently  to  be  fonnd  in  tliis 
most  unequal  of  dramas,  a  lover  aposlropliises  the  poison  by  wliich  liis  lady  died, 
with  this  elegant  curse — 

May  toads, 
Dragons,  and  mandrakcf,  be  thy  gally-pota! 


112  THE  INDICATOR. 

fional  substitutes  for  the  humanities  of  intercourse,  possessed  that 
natural  politeness  of  benignity,  which  is  so  instantly  felt  to  be  their 
Tital  spirit.  He  had  the  true  Welsh  face  improved  by  informa- 
tiofi,  hair  and  eyes  black  as  a  raven,  and  an  expression  of  great  cati- 
doar  and  good  nature.  If  we  remember  rightly,  we  gatitered  fcotoi  his 
conversation,  thait  he  had  risen,  by  dint  «f  bis  love  of  letters,  and 
lauch  to  the  credit  of  those  who  noticed  him,  from  an  hamble  origin ; 
•which  origin  he  neither  aifected  to  hide  nor  to  boast  of.  He  occa- 
sionally came  up  to  London ;  took  his  meals  with  the  best  society 
among  his  countrymen  or  at  his  own  hermit-like  table ;  and  hired  an 
humble  lodging  near  the  Museum,  where  it  was  his  delight  to  go  and, 
study  Welsh  antiquities.  Thus  if  he  came  to  London,  he  brought  his 
country  with  him;  found  his  bards  and  his  very  quiet  about  him». 
-wherever  he  pleased,  in  the  shape  of  books ;  and  in  default  of  his  goat3 
and  mountains,  could  get  among  animals  and  things  which  perhaps  he 
Joved  as  well,  and  thought  almost  as  real,  the  dragons  and  golden  fields 
of  Cambrian  heraldry.  Among  other  advantages  of  the  remoteness  and 
Tioroantic  nature  of  the  sphere  in  which  he  grew  up,  it  had  kept  him- 
free  from  the  small  pedantry  and  self-sufficiency  so  often  observable 
in  the  leading  wits  of  country  towns  and  minor  cities ;  who  think  their 
dwn  amount  of  knowledge  the  sum  of  ail  that  is  accomplished,  and 
have  aparticular  fancy  for  setting  Londoners  in  the  right.  He  had 
the  humanity  to  think  well  of  what  he  did  not  know.  He  loted  bis^ 
country's  music  and  its  poets,  and  in  our  fondness  for  an  air  on  the 
piano-forte  and  an  ode  of  Horace  was  pleased  to  discover  son>ething 
which  he  thought  worthy  both  of  his  sympathy  and  his  respect.  : 

[The  Editor  slowly  recovering  his  health,  is  obliged  to  postpone  the 
remainder  of  this  article  to  next  week.J 


Printed  and  pwblished  by  Joseph  Appletakd,  No.  19,  Catherine-streel,  Strand. 
Price  2d. — And  sold  also  by  A.  Guddow,  Importer  of  Snuffs,  No.  31,  Tavistork- 
st»»(»t,  Covent-garden.  Orders  received  at  the  above  placet!,  and  by  all  Book- 
aelters  ftud  Newsmen. 


THE    INDICATOR, 


Tliere  he  airiving  round  about  doili  flie. 
And  takes  survey  witli  busie  curious  eye: 
Now  this,  now  tliat,  he  tasteth  teiideriy. 

SfUNSKtt. 


T^o.  LXVir.— WEDNESDAY,  JANUARY  X7th,  1821. 


TRANSLATION  OF  MILTON  INTO  WELSH. 

J  (CONTIWCED  FaOH  OCR  tAOT.) 

This  pleasant  Cambro-Briton,  of  \vhom  we  were  speaking,  once 
took  us  to  see  a  countryman  of  his,  whose  taste  in  urbanities  and  and* 
quities  resembled  his  own.  He  lived  in  a  small  quiet  house  jiear  the 
fields ;  and  we  found  him  up  to  the  eyes  in  goofl-humour,  books,  and 
a  Welsh  harp.  If  we  are  not  mnch  mistaken,  this  is  the  author  of  the 
Welsh  Milton. 

There  is  something  very  beautiful  to  us  to  see  the  whole  souls  o( 
men  yearning  in  this  manner  towards  their  native  country,  when  its 
power  has  long  ceased  to  exist.  They  have  all  t^e  merit  of  adhering* 
to  a  great  friend  in  adversity  ;  and  yet  the  friend  is  perhaps  greater 
than  ever  he  was,  and  can  reward  them  more.  The  ancient  Britons^ 
had  in  them  the  seeds  of  a  great  nation,  even  in  our  modern  sense  of 
tlie  word.  They  had  courage  ;  they  had  reflection  ;  they  had  imagi- 
nation. When  driven  from  their  larger  possesi^ons  by  the  mere  power' 
which  the  world  then  adored,  they  soon  found  out  the  two  great* 
secrets  of  adversity,— that  of  softening  reality  with  romance,  and  of 
turning  experience  to  reformation.  They  possessed,  in  an  extraordi- 
nary degree,  the  spirit  of  legislative  improvement.  Power  at  last  made 
-a  vassal  of  their  prince.  There  were  writers  in  those  times  ;  harpers 
and  bards,  who  made  the  instinct  of  that  brute  faculty  turn  cruel  out 
of  fear.  But  there  were  no  presses  te  let  all  the  world  know  what  the 
writers  thought,  and  to  give  intellectual  power  its  fair  chances  with 
brute.  They  bequeathed  to  their  countrymen  however  the  glory  of 
their  memories.  They,  and  time  together,  have  consecrated  their 
native  hills,  so  as  they  were  never  before  consecrated.  Existing,  in  a 
manner,  no  longer  as  a  thing  of  the  common  world,  the  country  took 
an  elevation  nearer  heaven,     ll  lifted  op  its  head  in  the  light  of  love 

Vol.  IX. 


114  THE  INDICATOR. 

and  poetry,  and  its  tops  shine  to  this  day  in  the  reverted  eyes  of  its 
wanderers. 

Fond  impious  man,  thinkst  thou  yon  sanguine  cloud 
Raised  by  thy  breath,  lias  qiienclied  the  orb  of  day? 

To-morrow  he  repairs  the  golden  flood, 
And  warms  the  nations  with  redoubled  ray. 

Violence  is  the  grown  childhood  of  the  world.     Its  manhood  is  intel- 
lect and  equanimity ;  and  part  of  the  grace  of  manhood  consists  in 
recollecting  the  better  things  of  infancy.    Edward  the  First,  who  made 
vassals  of  the  Welsh,  is  now  an  inferior  person  ia  our  eyes  compared 
■with  Howel  the  legislator.     We  would  rather  see  Alfred  the  Great 
than  the  widest-ruling  of  all  the  Roman  Emperors.     We  should  ex- 
pect more  in  his  face.     We  should  recognize  in  him  a  greater  existing 
man, — a   finer   co-temporary,— -or  rather  a  more  becoming  fellow- 
creature  for  the  Shakspeares  and  Bacons  :  for  when  we  speak  of  mo- 
dern times,  we  mean  the  intellectual  times  -sVhich  such  gr^at  men  have 
produced  for  us.     Even  the  smallness  of  the  territory,  to  which  the 
old  Britons  were  confined,  serves  to  concentrate  and  make  strong  the 
gaze  of  recollection.      Mere  greatness  acts  through  the  medium  of 
pride  or  fear.     It  always  inflicts  a  sort  of  uneasy  consciousness  of  the 
gross  nature  of  its  pretensions.     Break  it,  and  it  resolves  its  com- 
pounds into  littleness.     You  can  only  contrast  it  with  mere  smallness, 
or  pity  it  because  it  is  not  entire.     It  cannot  aiford  to  be  otherwise. 
Its  compounds  have  no  principle  of  growth,— no  power  of  voluntary 
aggrandizement, — no  charm  with  which  to   call  associations  about 
them.     But  break  a  heart  into  a  thousand  shivers,  and  every  atom 
shall  be  reverenced.     Love  is  great  enough  for  itself.     Such  phrases 
as  the  Great  King  and  the  Great  Nation,  even  though  warranted  ia 
point  of  physical  power,  are  nothing  but  vanity,  and  are  felt  to  be  so. 
Both  imply  a  want  of  individual  importance,  and  by  the  same  reason 
a  want  of  general  humanity.     They  make  the  recollections  either  too' 
vaguely  public,  or  toa  minutely  private.     The  Persian  in  Greece,  or 
the  Turk  in  Candia,  was  angry  at  being  killed  by  a  petty  republican, 
or  regretted  only  his  haram  or  his  houris;  but  the  Greek  who  "  dying,' 
thought  of  sweet  Argos,"  *  and  the  Florentine  who  turned  at  hearing' 
Dante  speak  in  his  native  language,  and  felt  his  heart  live  again  at' 
*'  the  dialect  of  Arno's  vale,"  thought  of  his  home  and  his  country  as^ 
one.  ■••■■    '  •  ■  "■".'■:  '  -   ', 

It  is  a  feeling  connected  with  tiis  love  of  country,  which  most  parti- 
cularly strikes  us  in  the  translation  of  Milton.  Here  is  an  author 
fond  of  authorship,  an  author  living  among  Englishmen,  and  well 
aware  of  the  universality  of  their  language,  and  yet  he  contents  his 
ambition  Mith  produ<:ing  a  long  work  which  none  but  his  countrymen 
shall  understand.  It  is  sufficient  for  him  if  he  can  give  them  a  new 
source  of  pleasure.  It  is  enough  for  the  true  largeness  of  his  spirit  if 
he  can  give  a  thousand  times  more  than  he  can  receive, — happy  in 

*  Steruitur  infelix  aiieno  volnere,  ccelnmque 
Adspicit,et  dulces  moriens  reminiscitur  Argos.  •        . 

Virsil,  Lib.1%  v.  781. 


TllE  INCilCAtOBi.- 


115 


obtaining  the  thanks  of  the  modern  Howels  and  Llewellyns,  and  iii 
being  renowned  in  a  country  about  twice  the  size  of  Yorkshire.  ' 

On  opening  the  book,  we  are  then  struck  with  the  delight  it  must 
afford  to  those  who  have  no  other  language,  and  amused  with  the  un- 
readable face  it  presents  to  those  who  are  not  acquainted  with  it. 
One's  familiarity  with  the  original,  and  utter  inability  to  make  out  its 
expounder,  make  up  a  very  pleasant  perplexity.  We  will  quote  a 
passage  from  both,  which  in  Milton  is  like  the  corriing  of  an  army  with 
music,  and  which  must  present  high  associations,  of  another  sort,  to 
the  Welsh  reader.     Satan  has  just  numbered  his  forces  :— 

And  now  his  heart 
«'•"■'  Distends  with  pride,  and  hardening  in  his  strength 

-!(>'j  Glories:  for  never,  since  created  man, 

Met  such  embodied  force,  as  named  with  these 

Could  merit  more  than  that  small  infantry 

Warr'd  on  by  cranes;  though  all  the  giant  brood 

Of  Phlegra  with  the  heroic  race  were  joined 

That  fought  at  Thebes  and  Ilium,  on  each  side 

Mix'd  with  auxiliar  Gods;  and  what  resounds 
'  In  fable  or  romance  of  Utlier's  son 

Begirt  with  British  and  Armorick  knights  ; 

And  all  who  since,  baptiz'd  or  infidel, 

Jousted  in  Aspramont,  or  Montalbari, 

Damasco,  or  Marocco,  or  Trebisond, 

Or  whom  Biseria  sent  from  Africk  shore, 

WhenCharlemain  with  all  his  peerage  fcjll 

By  Fontarabbia. 


=?,bluow 

'  ■■  > 


■— .«WliJOD 


ob.  bii«  , 

:>iqi    hih 
r.  dJiw  i 

iriitr.> : 


i     ,     u,   ,    ufiiu'l  lo  noia 

T     .zvyihif  Ui:  oi  riOrtimoa 

I  kilo  o)nf  HoiJiHaiiisi) cloU 

>)iAibmi  hiifi  odtf  ^'nm  ol 

on  UnA  hnn  ^iuilHA 

■ttft!'   I!"!')'//   ri;i  .V  v:(!jii 

^)ut  i'^.iil  Mi 
fjftJil  'iiiJ  r.i 

IT  A.       .OTIikp. 
•:f{  OIK  fV.b  »J^ 


liJ  Yna  ymfulchia, 

Ei  galoii,  a  chaledu  yn  ei  uerth 
Ymorfoledda:  canys  nid  erised 
Er  pan  fu  dyn,  yr  ymddygyrcbai  In 
Wrth  y  rhai  hyn  teilyngacli  fyddent  nog 
Oedd  y  peddytos  man  a  gyrchent  gynt 
Greyrod;  er  pe  cawri  Phlegra  oil 
Yn  gyflu  ag  y  glewion  a  galeynt 
Rhag  Thebes  a  rliag  Ilion,  cymhlith  o    . 
Gyfneirthiaid  Dduwiau  y  ddwy  blaid;  a  plielli 
A  soniafll  chwedlau  am  fab  Uthr  ar  gyrch  '■ 
Marchogion  Prydain  ac  Armorioa;       ,i,  :i.,h  .•■ 

Ac  wedi  Bwynt  oil,  cred  neu  anghred  lui,,  ..  tr     ^       •'      • 

Yn  Aspramont  ncuMontalban,  neuyrt''^ '''>''  «"  """^'y  «»  f'^"**""- 
Damasco,  neu  Marocco,  neu  Trebisondj  1o  8t'"?<!  HHoilliT  fif  m'>o({ 
Neu  o  Affric  dorf  Biserta,  yn  y  drin  j.jg  aV.sVi  tU  J?  n'>7t>  btlfi  Ir;'>S 
Wrth  Fontarabbia,  pan  y,syrlhiai  Uql^  ^,^jj  ^,^,.^.,  gj^  1o-  IBobli; 
Urddolion  Carlo  Mawr  aoeje  ei  hun. '_  .  .,  ,  r«  . 
<))!).  ,i:  ;•'    ,?)'  ifil/I     ^bnOlM   «'o?J!15l    Ol  fH')0<{ 

Here^^e  some  fine  words'to  the,  ey;e:-«-f;  ^lubuBtai^bnu  <fs  jiiirr  J»).'ii 
Yna.  ymftdcKia      •>   Jr.  ^Vorfw  ^lUfUlA   \mn  'AiUV 
J^i galon,  a  chaledu  yn  einertji     r't  Juo8)2itJtI  sd  "(.fsawoig  T)hi\a 
Ymorfoledda. 

And  acaia:—  : :   ♦ 


Antlj— 


Marchogten  Prydain  ac  Armorioa : 

Yn  y  drin 
Wrth  Fontarabbia,  pan  y  syrtiiiai  ho]| 
Urddolion  Carlo  Mawr  ac  efe  ei  hun. 


■b    Y'XJJO    »(il     .IHSllillt  3ilO 


l\6  THE  INDICATOR. 

Charles  the  Great  keeps  up  his  old  trmmpbs.  He  always  gets  well  off 
in  every  tongue  and  nation^'^Charlemain,  Carlo  Mano,  Carolus  Mag- 
nus. Even  his  plain  monosyllable,  Carl,  which  Qarod,en  tells  us  is  the 
only  appellation  on  his  coins,  has  a  self-sufficing  and  dominant  sound. 
But  we  know  not  that  he  ever  cut  a  more  imperial  figure  thaa  in  this 
lofty  and  solemn  agnomen  of  Carlo  Mawr.  It  reminds  one  of  the 
mountain^*  The  names  that  abound  in  this  passage  serve  only  to  shew 
to  greater  effect  the  obscurity  oiF  the  rest.  Uthr  and  Prydain  we 
can  make  out :  Damasco,  and  Marocco,  and  Trebisond,  a^e  as  familiar 
to  us  as  the  sounds  of  a  trumpet ;  but  "  what  the  devil,"  as  Brautopi)^ 
•would  say,  is  "oedd  y  pedditosman  ?".  There  happens  to  be  a  note  to 
these  words ;  and  the  idea  of  explanation  is  so  united  with  that  of  a  note, 
that  one  looks  involuntarily  for  some  instruction  on  the  point.  The  fol- 
lowing is  the  elucidation.  "  Odd  y  pedditos  m«n."]— Syriiad  y  w  hyn  am 
y  ddammeg  o  ryfel  rh wyrig  y  cruQvd  ac  y  cre^'ocZ."  Even  the  "Preface,  we 
find,  has  nothing  in  it  for  us  Saxons ;  nor  the  Index  either.  At  last,  in 
the  former,  we  hit  upon  some  Greek  letters,  and  thought  that  some  light 
was  going  to  break  th  upon  us,  when  lo!  we  know  not  for  what  cause, 
but  these  Greek  letters  contained  only  Welsh  yvards.  This  was  "  the 
unkindest  cut  of  all."  But  they  look  lilie  some  memorial  about  a  lady, 
perhaps  an  affectionate  one  ;  and  we  return  to  our  gravities. 

The  only  remaining  observation  we  have  to  make,  is  the  pleasure 
with  which  the  great  poet  himself  would  have  witnessed  a  translation 
of  his  work  into  this  language  :  there  has  lately  been  an  Icelandic  ver- 
sion of  Paradise  Lost.  This  would  have  gratified  him,  from  feelings 
common  to  all  writers.  The  Italian  ones  were  a  matter  of  course.— 
But  a  translation  into  old  British  would  have  been  particularly  curious 
to  one,  who  had  meditated  an  epic  poem  on  the  exploits  of  King 
Arthur,  and  had  no  doubt  made  himself  as  well  acquainted  as  pos- 
sible with  Welsh  antiquities,  for  that  purpose.  The  overflowings  of 
this  first  intention  of  his,  when  it  was  afterwards  diverted,  are  visible 
in  the  little  streams  of  romance  which  occasionally  run  into  its  oth(  r 
sphere.  Among  the  subjf^cts  also  which  he  has  left  on  record  for  tra- 
gedy, are  passages  from  the  same  period  ;  and  when  he  began  a  His- 
tory of  Britain,  he  delighted  to  go  as  far  babk  as  possible,  and  do 
justice  to  Briton  as  well  as  Saxon.  He  speaks  of  the  ipt^nded  epic 
poem  in  various  parts  of  his  writings,  and  talks  of  bis  subject  with  a 
zeal  and  even  a  British  sort  of  partiality,  which  is  as  striking  as  the 
ardour  of  his  verse.  See  particularly  the  famous  i|»ass^ge  in  his  Latin 
poem  to  Tasso's  friend,  Manso,  where  aifter  expressing  iiis  wish  to 
meet  with  so  understanding  a  patron,  and  to  write; about  the  Round 
Table  and  Arthur,  who  ''  at  that  moment  was  preparing  his  wars 
under  ground,"  he  bursts  out  in  a  strain  like  the  clang  of  metal  :— 

*  Those  rofjuesthe  punsters,  who  will  be  levelling  everything,  ahrTlayitip  every 
language  double,  have  already  got  bold  of  the  tran(»l^lip^■  of  iVlr- Owen  Pugiie. 
One  of  ihera,  the  other  day,  seeing  the  words  "Mr.  Tomkins"  at  the  head  af  an 
advertisement,  and  fiiifling  that  it  concerned  that  late  eminent  writiitg-masier,  said 
thai  he  was  the  greates-t  man  that  flourished  diiring  the  last  century,  and  that  lie 
ought  to  be  called  Penman-Mav\r, 


TflE  TNIHCATCm.  IW 

Et,  O  modo  spir'rtus  adsit, 
Fr.angam  Saxonicas  Britonum  sub  Marte  phalangas! 

And  Oh,  did  spirit  come  on  me  but  fit  for  those 'high  war?, 
rd  crasii  the  Saxon  pl)al»vi]ces  beneaUi  th^BcUUIr  Mars! 

Perhaps  considering  what  a  proud  patriot  Milton  was,  notwithstanding 
all  his  cosmopoHtical  qualities,  it  aff4)rds  some  additional  explanation 
to  this  British  part  of  bis  enthusiasm,  to  find  that  his  mother  was  of 
Welsh  origin.  His  connexions  Were  probably  a  good  deal  among  the 
countrymen  of  her  family.  His  first  wife  was  th^  daughter  of  a 
Powell.  That  he  did  not  do  M;hat  he  intended,  has  been  regretted  by 
every  poet  who  has  alluded  to  it,  from  Dryden  to  Walter  Scott.  We 
remember  a  note  in  the  latter's  edition  of  Dryden,  where  he  asks, 
what  would  not  have  been  done ,  with  such  subjects  as  the  Perilous 
Chapel  and  the  Forbidden  Seat  ?  So  much,  that  being  compelled  to 
bring  this  articte  to  a  close,  we  dare  not  trust  ourselves  with  dwelling 
upon  it, — with  fancying  a  thousandth  part  of  the  grand  and  the 
gorgeous  things,  the  warlike  and  the  peaceful,  the  bearded  and  the 
vermeil-cheeked,  the  manly^  the  supernatural,  and  the  gentle,  with 
which  his  poem  would  have  burnt  brightly  dowil  to  u^,  like  windows 
painted  by  enchantment.    . 


COMMON  SENSE  AND  GENIUS.    '    ' 
From  the  Second  Volume  of  Mr.  Moore  ^  National  Slel^dies. 
WITH   AN'  AWSW^   TO  IT. 

ORIGINAL  ACCOUNT.  .    .  > 

While  I  touch  the  jitrin^,  '• 

Wreathe  my  brpws  with.laurel; 
For  the  tele  I  sing 

Has,  for  once,  a  moral. 
Common  Sense,  one  niglU', 

Tliongh  not  used  to  gjirtibo!?,. 
Went  out,  by  moon-Kgbt, 

With  Genius  on  his  rambles. 
While  I  touch  the  string; 

Wrealhe  my  brows  wilh.  laurel. 
For  the  tale  I  sing 

Has,  for  once,  a  morale 

Common  ^efrtee  went  on, 

Many  wise  things  sayiogi 
Wliile  the  light  that  shone,  . 

Soon  set  Genius  straying,  ,     ,,/ 

One  his  eye  ne'er  raised  ,j 

From  the  path  before  him  ; 
T'other  idly  gazed 

Pii  e^wh  wigfht-clood  o'er  him*  :i,;  i;   t ,   li   .: 

While  I  loucb  the  etring,  fiacvunJ  Haw  oiU  c; 


118  THE  INDICATOR. 

So  tliey  came  at  last 
'      To  a  sbady  river; —  '  ■  ' 

Common  Sense  soon  passed 

Safe,  aS  he  doth  ever  J ' 
While  the  boy,  whose  look 

Was  in  heaven  that  minute,  , 

Never  saw  the  brook,'"  ■;■'■-•;•'  .ir>D  grjBff 

riintri!   i  ■  ' )  !';;    .B'ut  tumbled  headlong  iii  iti,  '  .-,,,. 

l.(+.,v/i  »'(Hf>m   '!•!   '5    '     While  I  touch  the  string,  &c^ 
-•m!J  -nonii;   1/5'  'Mow  the  wise  one  smiled, 

J-   lo  T*'/?"!'^.!'    ■  /When  safe  o'er  the  torrent,   .  > 

'  ,.  ,      "/    '^     '"   At  that  youth  so  wild,;  -   -,',  i     ,  !,      ,. ;   .    .i  i         ('■.  • 

V'  f   .tjyiii-!  fi       Dripprng  from  thecurretif:  ;  /  -••'••■'     '•      '^\      •'•  * 
.;•//      .l)M.iH  T.v';Sehs0  went  home  to  bed;--  "*  Iwboilr.  atsjj  o.ivf  iootf   y: 
!  „vM 'hI  £>T)fl  .V     Geniw?,  left  to  9hi!ver>  ci'DlfisI  yrf>  la  sJ"n  n  lOtlir?' 
r.ioliT.*^!    oiii   v.P"  the  bank, 'ti^  said,- ..,   on  >?)  "'Tv  d 'muf  ion  bfuoy/ .?• 

vl  h-iHofffTiO')  jinr;.l  F;;!.  •  While  1  touch  the  string,'  ''/  ,'^' ""?"•' 
'iTriir^wb  (jij'ff  ;.>v!'.;  ii^i  .  ^  Wreathe  my  brows  witlrlAlirel  s"''^  *'"*  r' 
•  ftt   bii«  bilBlJV  9l{»    lo  tir.Jforthetalelsing*  ->;ii:l    uJiw— (Ji    i: 

i{ti«;  .yUfr,2  •»rii^  ^f ^ /'-^.^^g^HEOccd^i^.    'V;!^V:^!'^!"' 

"While  1  touch  the  strin?, 

Wreathe  my  brows  with  laurel; 
For  the  tale  I  sing 

Has  a  fnriher  moral. 
"Tissaid!"     Did  he  so? 

Then  let  me-8ay,-4hat  Tis,  Ma'iim, 
Is,  as  many  know. 

The  veriest  liar  that  is>.  Ma'am. 
While  I  touch  the  string. 

Wreathe  mi/  brows  with  laurel ; 
For  tlie  tale  I  sing,        ,   • 

Has  a  further  moral.* 

Genius  did  not  die; 

Twas  an  envious  rumour,  •    .    - 

He  got  quickly  dry. 

And  turned  the  dip  to  humour* 
Common  Sense,  tis  true. 

Left  him  like  an  elf  there; 
But  Common's  wife,  a  shrew,  '     >'  '  >'.■     '    ' 

Made  him  wish  himself  there  i  "'"!  ''j'*  '    ' 
While  I-teuchi  the  sttiTigi^&c.'  - 

Common  Sense  next  day      ,.  ,     ^  .i  ,    ..      , 

Went  to  business  sulky,,  .  -  ,,  ij, ,// 

Cheating  all  the  way,  .JiltiW 

To  make  his  pockets  bulky.  '    '   '  J/ 

-  Genius  went  about,  / 

Sowing  smiles  and  fiowejs;  { 

Bright  eyes  looking  out 

To  thank  him  from  their  bowers. 

While  I  touch  the  strit>gji&C4:i  O 

Common  Sense  at  fast  .".  .         t.'   •// 

Died  of  the  old  woman, 
And  was  buried  fast 

£y  his  niece  Uacommon. 

*  Tis  more  familiarly  known  by  the  addition  of  hit  ustral  habit,  Tii  said,  is  own 
cousin  to  the  well  known  gabbling  Freuchman  On  dit. 


THE  INDICATOR.  Itf 

Genius  loved  and  wooed 

By  that  self-sanoe  river; 
Tliey  had  Common  Good ; 
And  all  three  lived  fop  ever. 

Wliile  I  touch  the  string,  *■ 

Wreathe  my  brows  wilh.laurel; 
For  the  tale  I  sing". 
Has  a  further  moral. 


A  HATE  SONG. 

DIALOGDB  BETWEEN  THE  POET  AWD  A   LADT. 

P.  Let  lovers  whine  of  darts  and  pains 

That  run 'em  through  and  through;  >> 

And  curse  their  lot  in  «uclrold  strains,  . 
As  make  us  curse  it  too; 

For  my  part,  Ma'am,^  my  happier  fatd 

At  present  is  to  be  in  hate.  ' ' 

L.  In  hate!  Good  God,  Sir,  what  a  phrase! 

And  what  a  dreadful  thin^ ! 
Come,  come,  you're  in  your  joking  ways: 

What !:  lofty  as  a  king ! 
Well,  well,'  I  hope  its  not  with  me ! 
Yow'll  not  convince  me  easily. 

P,  I  trust  I  may,  for  those  sweet  eyes 

So  gentle  are  and  winceable, ' 
They  hold  the  sum  of  all  that's  wise. 

Convincing  and  convinceable-.  ■ 
So  there ! — and  there ! — ^They  call  it,  Ma'amj 
The  argument  ad'^mmam.  ' 

L.  Well,  Sir,  I  vow — Nay,  nay,  I'U  hide 

The  book  you  kiss  so  for  ene  ; 
But  still  I  am  not  satisfied. 

Now  you,  Sir,  could  abhor  one. 
Why,  it  must  be  a  shocking  state !  ^•     » 

What  does  one  do,  when  one's  in  hatd ?'">'« W|5'.'>'nn>   /^ 

f .  Why  nothing,  Madam.    There's  the  Blis^:-ij"""  «  "'  -  "»'^ 

'Tis  all  a  fine  negation;  '  If    .o-;!(liW;  -."I 

No  anxious  thoughts  of  that  or  this,  .     .  '  i 

Nor  any  inclination ; 
Except  indeed,  when  one  is  present, 
To  go  away,  or  be  unpleasant. 

L.  Nay,  this  would  be  indifference. 

Except  for  that  last  word  : 
J,  sometimes,  God  knows,  could  dispense 

With  a  vyhole  tattling  herd ; 
But  as  to  being  wilfolly 
Unpleasant,  why — P.  You  cannot  be. 

Now  I,  Ma'am  (hei'e  some  critic  cries, 

*'  Ay,.ay^  there  is  no  need  " 

For  telling  us  that  eyes  are  eyes:   .  v  <.-/y 

You'd  say  that^ow  succeed" — ) 
Now  I,  Ma'am,  may;  though  seldom  sure 
Except  with  some  poor  fierce  Reviewer. 

But  one  can't  be  in  hate  with  men  ; 

It  must  be  with  a  person 
Of  t'other  sex;  and  ohiy  then  ' 

When  she's  a  very  curse  on 
The  sex  itself,  ahd  only  known 
For  wotnau  bv  her  libellous  gown.        ■ 


tm  TIIR  INDieATOR: 

A  vnin  and  jealoud  lump,  to  v^it,    '  > 

Who  sins  and: thinks  all  dinners; 
Or  one  wlio  "  cannot  cat  a  bit,"  .' 

Because  she'n  h«d  two  dinners  j.    ,    A 
Gr  one  vnh*  holds  heir  kindVed  small* 
;"        And  y&t  derriand.'v  firRi  ibve  from  ttlU- 

Or  on^,  v^o  with  a  mtghiy  nir  W 

Makes  flourishes  bfiVumpets 
In  asking  you  to  eat  a  pear. 

Or  pressing  you  to  crumpets  ; 
Then  chucks  a  farthing  to  a  beggar, 
.      Because  lie  looks  ^^  so.  cBonstrmis- eager.*' T 

Orv<Htei;^iJi;1te  \rith  a  tonglie  as  mdek  ' 
•    As  irit  cottldnotstir,   '  . 

Win  flrttter  yoH  tiU  you  are  6tcfc» 

In  hopes  MniMi  fiatter  her; 
AaiA  Wypttaaah^or  Vroh't,  or  oan*t>^  : 
Will  go  antjt^aay  you  keep. your  aiuut^i. 

'    Or  bne  w)io  caonot  find  a  podnd        !     I 

To  citeer  her  parents' faeesy 
Afid  then  ta ai4  her  gossips  rouikl     ' ) 

Goes  flariag  in'new laced;^ 
Wfe)»rtn^  ii»  her  adder's  eita 
Pearls  tliat  seem  cotnpos'dof  tears. 

L.  My  wonder's  goHe:^-<btit  st'rli-^this  fiiss^ 
P.      Ah,  Madam,  pray  vefiectt 

I(  Ladies:  CvM  ia  hate  wi^lius* 
They  canoot  besritegiect. 

Disdain  so  kiU«  thmi  witbv^xatron'f't 

*Tis  kludoesa  td  rettirtk  the  passkm,  \' 

^   -  .^l  ~itii '%  I  .'iiir'i  iiiiiini   ilf 

•TO  CORIlESPONt)eNTS.       , 

A  Correspondent  Vksks  after  tfa&  words,  whidli  soggested  ta  as  the 
so»g  in  a  numjber  or  two  faackf^  We  found  them  in.^  old  set  of  airs 
by  MillicO)  who  we  believe,  was  a  poptilar  coitif)oser.  They  are  as 
follow,  and  are  set  in- a  very  sprighdy  and  dianiCteristic  manner. 

Se  tnoiteca  ti  (4t» 

lo  frate  mi  faroj    . 
In  che  convento  vai,  .     . 

'lo  par  ti  seguirS.  -  - 

Quando  balte  la  lunn, 
Fatto  la  m1a  fbriuua, 

Che  regolar  non  so : 
Vorresti  farti  moneea,^ 

Ma  iToii  )o  credo,  no. 

We  are  much  obliged  to  our  friend  T.  Rw,.  ^d  should  like  to  see 
the  work  he  speaks  of.   . 


Printed  and  published  by  Joseph  ApflbtARD,  No.  19,  Catherine-street,  Strand. 
Price  2d. — And  sold  also  by  A.  Gliddon,  Importer  of  Snuffs,  No.  31,  Tavistock- 
str<»et,  Covent-gnrden.  Orders  receivedat  the  above  plat:es)  and  by  alt  Book* 
sellers  and  Newsmeni 


THE    INDICATOR. 


There  he  arriving  round  about  doth  flie« 
And  takes  survey  with  busie  curious  eye ; 
Nuw  this,  now  that,  he  tasteth  tenderly. 


No.  LXViri,— WEDNESDAY,  JANUARY  24th,  1821. 


APOLOGIES  AND  PRIMROSES. 

We  omitted  to  mention,  that  the  verses  in  oar  last  number  were 
repeated  from  the  Examiner.  It  is  neither  the  importance  nor  the 
unimportance  of  th«  things  themselves,  which  makes  us  thus  scrupu- 
lous ;  but  as  we  go  upon  a  ground  of  truth  in  all  we  write,  and  do  not 
even  wear  a  mask  in  this  our  "  Indicative  mood,"  we  like  the  reader 
to  know  when  he  is  purchasing  patterns  that  have  not  been  sold  be- 
fore, and  when  he  is  consenting,  for  our  accommodation,  to  let  those 
that  have,  be  copied  for  him  as  a  make-up.  It  is  fair  play  towards 
him ;  and  assists  whatever  value  our  Writings  may  have,  when  new. 

As  people  cannot  get  well,  somehow,  as  fast  as  they  could  wish,  still 
less  by  the  same  means  which  helped  to  make  them  ill,  (which  is  very 
Inconvenient),  we  must  again  draw  upon  former  productions  for  a 
whole  mimber.  There  are  twenty  subjects  pressing  upon  us  for  notice, 
to  all  which,  like  -friends  whom  we  long  to  visit,  we  are  obliged  to 
tnalce  the  most  unwilling  and  self-denying  excuses :  but  it  U  only  with. 
<he  hope  of  securing  our  health  for  their  service.  At  present,  we  are 
obliged  to  go  on  nursing  ©ur  megrims,  diaphragms,  patiences,  and 
*'  other  gentilities,"  as  Metastasio  says.  But  spring,  as  well  as  hope, 
is  now  before  us ;  and  we  omit  no  active,  as  well  as  passive  means,  to 
restore  the  equilibrium  between  our  preaching  and  our  practice,  and 
prove  ourselves  worthy  pioneers  into  the  woods  and  green  lanes.  Oa 
Saturday  morning,,  which  happened  to  be  so  fine,  we  heard,  for  the 
first  time  this  year,  the  cry  of  Primroses ;  which  besides  its  being  a 
very  pretty  cry  and  tuneable,  is  to  the  new  year  what  the  Cuckoo  is 
to  the  summer  ;  only  it  is  a  still  pleasanter  song,  because  it  is  still 
more  wanted,  and  is  human.  Fortunately,  the  crier  was  a  woman, 
and  did  it  justice.  What  a  world  of  thoughts  must  not  a  passing  voice, 
on  such  an  occasion,  cast  into  each  house  as  it  goes !  To  how  many 
preople  must  it  not  speak  of  youth,  and  childhood,  and  the  green  fields, 
and  all  that  has  past  since  thej  used  to  strojl  ia  theiQ)  and  aU  the 

Vol.  II. 


122  THE  INDICATOR. 

hours  they  would  willingly  pass  there  again !  For  our  parts,  in  spite 
of  our  ill  health,  it  opened  upon  us  at  once  such  an  agreeable  sphere 
of  creation,  made  up  of  health,  and  morning,  and  youth,  and  fresh  air, 
and  the  flowers,  that  we  could  not  help  imagining  the  crier  to  be  both 
young  and  handsome.  The  woman  with  doves  on  her  head  in  one  of 
Raphael's  pictures  could  not  have  touched  us  more.  It  is  true,  had 
she  turned  out  old  and  withered,  she  might  not  have  touched  us  less  :— 
but  we  did  not  get  up  to  see. 


FALSTAFF'S  LETTERS. 

[Agreeably  to  our  plan  of  noticing  such  works  as  either  demand  a 
particular  kind  of  introduction  to  the  public,  or  do  not  appear  to  be 
appreciated  as  the^  deserve,  we  repeat  a  criticism  written  by  a  friend 
on  the  following  Letters.  Not  long  after  it  appeared  in  the  Examiner, 
the  author,  who  was  its  subject,  died.  His  name  was  James  White ; 
and  many  who  knew  nothing  of  hhn  as  a  writer,  will  recollect  being 
familiar  with  his  name  in  the  unromantic  title  of  an  Agent  for  News- 
papers. Not  the  least  indeed  of  his  Shakspearian  qualities,  was  an 
indifference  to  fame.  He  was  also,  like  his  great  inspirer,  a  gentle- 
man. He  was  one  among  the  many  living  writers,  who  passed  their 
boyhood  in  Christ  Hospital,  where  he  held  an  office,  sometime  after 
quitting  it.  We  remember,  as  he  passed  through  the  cloisters,  how 
we  used  to  admire  his  handsome  appearance,  and  unimprovable  man- 
lier of  wearing  his  new  clothes.] 

*'  Original  Letters,  Sfc.  of  Sir  John  Falstaffand  his  Friends  ;  nowfir^ 
vnade  public  by  a  Gentleman,  a  descendant  of  Dame  Quickly,  from 
genuine  MSS.  which  have  been  in  the  possession  of  the  QuicJcly  Family 

'        near  four  hundred  years.''* 

A  copy  of  this  work  sold  at  the  Roxburgh  sale  for  five  guineas.  We 
have  both  before  and  since  that  time  picked  it  up  at  stalls  for  eighteen- 
pence.  Reader,  if  you  shall  ever  light  upon  a  copy  in  the  same  way, 
we  counsel  you  to  buy  it.  We  are  deceived  if  there  be  not  in  it  much 
of  the  true  Shakspearian  stuff.  We  present  you  "with  a  few  of  the 
Letters,  which  may  speak  for  themselves : — 

FALSTAFF  TO   THE   FRIKCS. 

"  I  pr'ythee,  Hal,  lend  me  thy 'kerchief.  An  thy  unkindness  Tiave  not  started 
more  salt  gouts  down  my  poor  old  cheek,  than  my  good  rapier  hath  of  blood  from 
foemeu's  gashes  in  five  and  thirty  years'  service,  then  am  I  very  senseless  mummy. 
1  squander  away  in  drinkings  monies  belonging  to  the  soldiery!  I  do  deny  it — 
they  have  had  part — the  surplus  is  gone  in  charily — accuse  the  parish-officers — 
make  them  restore — the  whoreson  wardens  do  now  put  on  the  cloak  of  supplication 
at  the  church  doors,  intercepting  gentlemen  for  charity,  forsooth  ! — 'Tis  a  robbery, 
a  villainous  robbery  !  to  come  upon  a  gentleman  reeking  with  piety,  God's  book  in 
his  hand,  brimfuil  of  the  sacrament!  Thou  knowest,  Hal,  as  I  am  but  man,  I  dare 
in  some  sort  leer  at  the  plate  and  pass,  but  as  I  have  tlie  body  and  blood  of  Christ 
within  me,  could  I  do  it .'    An  I  did  not  make  an  oblation  of  a  matter  of  leu  pound 


THE  INDICATOR.  MS 

after  (he  battle  of  SI)rewsbury,  in  humble  pratitude  for  tliy  safety,  Hal,  then  am  I 

llie  veriest  trniisgressor  denounced   in   God's  code.     But  111  see  them  damned  ere, 

I'll  be  charitable  again.     Let  'em  coin  the  plate — let  them  coin  the  holy  chalice." 
»  *  *  *  •»  «  ♦  *  *»  * 

THE   SAME   TO   THE   SAME. 

*'  Ha  !  ha  !  ha!  And  dost  thou  think  I  would  not  offer  up  ten  pound  for  thee  ? 
yea,  a  hundred — more — but  take  heed  of  displeasing  in  thy  sacrifice.  Cain  did 
bring  a  kid,  yea,  a  firstling  upon  the  altar,  and  the  blaze  ascended  not.  Abel  did 
gather  simple  herbs,  penny-royal,  Hal,  and  mustard,  a  fourpenny  matter,  and  (he. 
odoiiT  was  grateful.  I  had  (en  pound  for  the  holy  ofTerlory — mine  ancient  Pistol 
doth  know  it — but  (he  angel  did  arrest  my  hand.  Could  I  go  beyond  (he  word  ? — 
the  angel  which  did  stretch  forth  his  finger,  lest  (he  good  pa(riarch  should  slay  his 

son. That  Ned  Poins  hath  more  colours  (han  a  jay,   more  abuse  (han  a  (aught 

pie,  and  for  wi( — the  cuckow's  dam  may  be  Fool  of  the  Court  to  him.  I  lie  down 
at  Slirewsbury  eut  of  base  fear !  I  melt  into  roods,  and  acres,  and  poles  !  I  tell  thee 
what,  Hal,  there^s  not  a  subject  in  the  land  hath  half  my  temperance  of  valour. — 
Did  1  not  see  thee  combatting  the  man-queller,  Hotspur;  jea,  in  peril  of  subdue- 
ment?  Was  it  for  me  to  lose  my  sweet  Hal  without  a  thrust,  having  my  rapier, 
my  habergion,  my  good  self  about  me  ?  I  did  lie  down  in  the  hope  of  sherking  him 
in  the  rib — four  drummers  and  a  fifer  did  help  me  to  the  groiind  : — didst  thou  not 
mark  how  I  did  leer  upon  thee  from  beneath  my  buckler?  That  Poins  hath  more 
scurrility  than  is  in  a  whole  flock  of  disquieted  geese. 

"  For  the  rebels  I  did  conceal,  thou  shoiild'st  give  me  laud.  1  did  think  thou 
wert  already  encompassed  with  more  enemies  than  the  resources  of  man  could  pre- 
vent overwhelming  thee;  yea,  that  thou  wert  the  dove  on  the  waters  of  Ararat; 
and  didst  lack  a  resting-place.  Was  it  for  me  to  heap  to  thy  manifold  disquiets  ? 
Was  it  for  me  to  fret  thee  with  the  advice  of  more  enemies  than  thou  didst  already 
know  of-?  I  could  not  take  their  lives,  and  therefore  did  I  take  their  monies.  I  did 
fine  them,  lest  they  should  escape,  Hal,  thou  dost  understand  me,  without  chastise- 
ment; yea,  I  fined  (hem  for  a  punishment.  They  did  make  oath  on  the  point  of  my 
sword  to  be  true  men-: — an  the  rogues  foreswore  themselves,  and  joined  the  Welch- 
man,  let  them  loolc  to  it — -'tis  no 'peachment  of  my  virtue."         *         *         *         * 

AGAIN. 

"Oh!  I  em  sitting  on  a  nest  of  the  most  unfledged  cuckows  that  ever  brooded 
under  the  wing  of  hawk.  Thou  must  know,  Hal,  I  had  note  of  a  good  hale  recruit 
©r  two  in  this  nei'^hbourhood.  In  other  shape  came  I  not;  look  to  it.  Master  Shal- 
low, that  in  other  shape  I  depart  not.  But  I  know  thou  art  ever  all  desire  to  be 
admitted  a  Fellow  Commoner  in  a  jest.  Robert  Shallow,  Esq.  judgeth  the  hamlet 
ofCotswold.  Doth  not  tlie  name  of  judge  horribly  chill  thee?  With  Aaron's  rod 
in  his  hand,  hp  hath  the  while  benrd  of  Moses  on  his  chin.  In  goodsooth  his  per- 
petual countenance  is  not  unlike  what  thou  wouldst  conceit  of  the  momentary  one 
of  the  lunatic  Jew,  when  he  tumbled  God's  tables  from  the  mount.  He  hath  a 
quick  busy  gait — more  of  this  upright  Judge  (perpendicular  as  a  pikeman's  weapon, 
Hal),  anoi).  I  would  dispatch  with  these  Bardolph;  but  the  knave's  hands — (I  cry 
thee  mercy)  his  mouth  is  full  in  preventing  desertion  among  my  recruits.  An  every 
liver  among  them  haven't  stood  me  in  three  and  forty  shilling,  then  am  I  a  naughty 
escheator. —  I  tell  thee  what,  Hal,  I'd  fight  against  my  conscience  for  never  a  Prince 
in  Christendom  but  thee. — Oh  !  this  is  a  mest  damnable  cause,  and  the  rogues  know 
it — they'll  drink  nothing  but  sack  of  three  and  twopence  a  gallon  ;  and  I  enlist  me 
none  but  tall  puissant  fellows  that  would  quaff  me  up  Fleet-ditch,  were  it  filled 
with  sack — picked  men,,  Hal — such  as  will  shake  my  Lord  of  Yerk's  mitre.  Ipray 
thee,  sweet  lad,  mak«  speed: — thoitr^halt  see  glorious  deeds." 

How  say  you,  reader,  do  not  these  irtventions  smack  of  Eastcheap  ? 
Are  they  not  nimble,  forgetive,  evasive  ?  Is  not  the  humour  of  them 
elaborate,  cogitabund,  fanciful  ?  Carry  they  not  the  true  image  and 
superscription  of  the  father  which  begat  them  ?  Are  they  not  steeped 
all  over  in  character — subtle,  profound,  unctuous  ?  Is  not  here  the 
very  effigjes  of  the  Knight  ?  Could  a  counterfeit  Jack  FalstafFcome 
hy  these  conceits  ?     Or  are  you,  reader,  one  who  delights  to  drench 


124  THE  INDICATOR. 

fik  mirth  in  tears  ?  ,  Yot  are,  or,  peradventure,  have  been  a  lover ;  a 
*'  dismissed  bachelor,"  perchance,  one  that  is  "  lass-lorn."  Come, 
then,  and  weep  over  the  dying  bed  of  such  a  one  as  thyself.  Weep 
with  us  the  death  of  poof  Abraham  Slender. 

DAVT  TO   SHALLOW. 

**  Master  Abram  is  dead,  gone,  your  Worship,  dead!  Masler  Abram  !  Oh! 
good  your  Worship,  a's  gone.  A  never  throve,  since  a' came  from  Windsor — 
twas  his  death,  I  called  him  rebel,  your  Worship — but  a'  was  ail  subject — a'  was 
subject  to  any  babe,  as  much  as  a  King — a'  turned,  like  as  it  were  the  latter  end  of » 
i'loverskite — a' was  all  peace  and  resignment — a' took  delight  in  nothing  but  his 
Book  of  Songs  tind  Sonnets — a'  would  go  to  the  Stroud  side  under  the  large  beech- 
tree,  and  sing,  till  'twas  quite  pity  of  our  lives  to  mark  him ;  for  his  chin  grew  as 
long  as  amuscle. — Oh  !  a'  sung  his  soul  and  body  quite  away — a'  was  lank  as  any 
greyhouod,  and  had  such  a  scent  I  I  hid  his  love-songs  among  your  Worship's 
law-books;  for  I  thought,  if  a'  could  not  get  at  them,  it  might  be  to  his  quiei ;  but 
a' snuffed  'em  out  in  a  moment.  Good  your  Worship,  have  the  wise  woman  oF 
Brentford  secured — Master  Abram  may  have  been  conjured — Peter  Simple  says,  a' 
never  looked  up  after  a'  sent  for  the  wise  woman — Marry,  a'  was  always  given  to 
look  down  afore  his  elders;  a'  might  do  it,  a'  was  given  to  it — your  Worship  kreows 
it;  but  then  'twas  peak  and  pert  with  him,  marry,  in  the  turn  of  his  heel. — A'  died, 
your  Worship,  just  about  ©ne,  at  the  crow  of  the  cock. — 1  thought  how  it  was  with 
fiim  ;  for  a'  talked  as  quick,  aye,  marry,  as  glib  as  your  Worship;  and  a'  smiled, 
and  looked  at  his  own  nose,  and  called  "  Sweet  Ann  Page."  I  asked  him  if  a' 
would  eat — so  a' bad  us  commend  him  to  his  cousin  Robert  (a' never  called  your 
Worship  BO  before)  and  bad  us  get  hot  meat,  for  a'  would  not  say  "  nay"  to  Ann 
sgaijn**  But  a'  never  lived  to  touch  it — a'  began  all  in  a  moment  to  sing 
*'  Lovers  all,  a  Madrigall."  "IVas  the  only  song  Master  Abram  ever  leumt  out  of 
book,  and  clean  by  heart,  your  Worship — and  so  a'  sung  and  smiled,  and  looked 
askew  at  his  own  nose,  and  sung,  and  sung  on,  till  his  breath  waxed  shorter,  and 
shorter,  and  shorter,  and  a' fell  into  a  struggle  and  died.  Alice  Shortcake  crave*, 
«he  may  make  his  shroud."         **  *  ♦  ♦♦  »#• 

Should  these  specimens  fail  to  rouse  your  curiosity  to  see  the  wholf, 
it  may  be  to  your  loss,  gentle  reader,  but  it  will  give  small  pain  to  the 
spirit  of  him  that  wrote  this  little  book  ;  my  fine-tt^mpered  friend, 
J.  W.— for  not  in  authorship,  or  the  spirit  of  authorship,  but  from  the 
fullness  of  a  young  soul,  newly  kindling  at  the  Shakspearian  flamo,aiKl 
bursting  to  be  delivered  of  a  rich  exuberance  of  conceits, — I  had 
almost  said  khidred  with  those  of  the  full  SkaJcspeanan  genius  itself— 
were  these  Letters  dictated.  We  remember  wlum  the  ius|)iration  catnc 
»pon  him  ;  when  the  plays  of  Henry  the  Fourth  were  first  put  into 
his  hands.  We  think  at  our  recommeudation  he  read  them,  rather 
late  in  life,  though  stiH  he  was  but  a  youth.  He  may  heve  forgotten, 
but  we  cannot,  the  pleasant  evenings  which  ensued  at  the  Boar's  Head 
(as  we  called  our  tavern,  though  in  reality  the  sign  was  not  that,  nor 
the  street  Eastcheap,  for  that  honoured  place  of  resort  has  long  since 
passed  away)  when  over  our  pottle  of  Sherris  he  would  talk  you 
nothing  but  pure  Falstaff  the  long  evenings  through.  Like  his,  fhe 
viit  of  J.  W.  was  deep,  recondite,  imaginative,  full  of  goodly  figures 
and  fancies.  Those  evenings  have  long  since  passed  away,  and  nothing 
comparable  to  them  has  come  in  their  stead,  or  can  come.  "  We  have 
beard  the  chimes  at  midnight."  *«-** 

.       ,       '^  Vide  Merry  Wivcb  of  Windsor,  latter  purt  of  1st  scene,  l»l  act. 


THE  INDICATOR.  123 


CHARGE  OF  FRIGHTENED  DEATH-BEDS:    DEATHS  OF  VOLTAIRE, 
LUTHER,  CALVIN,  &c. 

{[The  following  article  was  written  in  answer  to  some  lately  revived 
calumnies.  We  omit  a  few  words  at  the  beginning,  because  they  namef 
a  party  paper,  and  are  written  with  more  of  the  spirit  of  party  than 
we  admit  into  these  our  sequestered  columns.  We  must  only  observe^ 
that  the  Abb6  Barruel  was  mentioned,  as  the  authority  alv^ays  quoted 
for  tliese  stories.  We  must  add  too,  that  with  all  our  respect  for 
Voltaire's  wonderful  talents  and  benevolence,  we  do  not  think  he  had 
enough  of  what  is  emphatically  called  sentiment,  to  enter  into  all  tliat 
might  be  made  of  the  Christian  system;  but  he  had  grown  up  in  the 
thick  of  its  abuses,  was  inspired  against  it  by  the  very  share  he  pre- 
served of  its  own  spirit,  and  was  assuredly,  in  the  eyes  of  all  who  caa 
reason  as  well  as  feel,  much  more  of  the  real  Christian  than  his  ca- 
lumniators. They  pretend,  though  they  are  far  from  believing,  that  his 
opposition  will  have  done  good  to  the  Christian  doctrine ;  and  so  it 
will,  but  not  in  their  sense.  The  extraordinary,  undeniable,  and  still 
increasing  eflRct  which  he  produced  upon  the  world,  has  even  assisted, 
and  will  continue  to  assist,  the  true  part  of  it ;  that  part  of  it,  In  which 
he  believed  with  his  heart  if  not  with  his  tongue;  and  which,  by  tha 
way,  those  very  calumniators  have  always  done  their  best  to  hamper 
and  confound.  The  paragraphs  relating  to  Paine's  death-bed  are 
omitted  for  want  of  room.] 

The  first  person  who  gave  a  genuine  account  of  the  death  as  well  as 
life  of  Voltaire,  was  a  man  no  less  illustrious  for  his  virtues  than  ta- 
lents,— Condorcet.  His  account  Was  confirmed  and  given  more  in 
detail  by  a  writer,  who  was  furnished  with  every  possible  means  of 
getting  at  the  truth  by  Voltaire's  family  and  connexions,  the  portfolios 
of  men  of  letters,  and  the  manuscript  memoirs  of  the  philosopher's 
secretary,  Longchamp.  The  substance  is  as  follows: — Voltaire,  fit 
extreme  old  age,  beheld  bis  bust  crowned  at  the  theatre"  at  Paris, 
amidst  the  tears  and  shouts  of  an  enthusiastic  multitude.  "  They  will 
kill  me,"  said  he,  "  with  pleasure.''  Honours  and  gratitude  crowded 
upon  him.  Among  others  who  came  to  pay  him  their  homage  (mark 
this.  Englishmen)  was  Franklin^  who  asked  him  for  his  benedictiod 
upon  his  little  grandson.  The  philosopher  in  giving  it,  said  he  could 
not  resist  speaking  for  a  moment  the  native  tongue  of  his  visitor.  "  I 
will  give,"  said  he,  "  the  only  benediction  befitting  a  grandson  of  Mr. 
Franklin  ;"  and  then  laying  his  hand  on  the  child,  pronounced  iti 
English,  "  God  and  Liberty."  The  sensibility  he  witnessed  on  all 
sides,  roused  all  the  fire  of  his  youth.  He  said  that  the  treatment  he 
experienced  gave  hin>  hopes  of  being  able  to  propose  to  the  Academy 
the  eulogy  of  Coligny  (the  Huguenot  Admiral  slain  in  the  Massacre 
of  St.  Bartholomew).  He  advised  the  Academy  to  remodel  their  dic- 
tionary, and  took  for  his  portion  the  letter  A,  upon  which  he  went 
stoutly  to  work.  He  took  immoderate  draughts  of  coffee,  the  better 
to  keep  his  old  age  awake  ;  then  opium  to  counteract  the  coffee,  but  it 
only  a^ssiitcd  it;  and  all  these  efforts  and  emotions  hastened  his  last 


126  THE  INDICATOR. 

hour.  Another  shock  of  the  uiest  pleasing  kind  awaited  hin  -when  he 
lay  down  to  die.  This  was  the  reversal  of  tlie  decree  against  M.  Lally 
Tolendal's  father, — a  cause  in  which  the  saviour  of  Galas  and  Serven 
had  interested  himself.  The  last  sentence  he  dictated  was  on  this  sub- 
ject, and  has  become  more  inleresling  to  us  all  every  day.  "  I  die  content," 
said  he,  "  for  the  reign  of  Justice  has  commenced."  (It  was  destined 
to  have  a  bloody  commencement,  it  is  true,  like  the  Ciiristian  religion  ; 
but  it  has  survived  all  shocks,  and  will  triumph.;  At  length  his  hour 
arrived.  The  Curate  of  St.  Sulpice,  a  vain,  servile,  and  haughty  sim- 
pleton, who  had  made  his  appearance  before  to  no  purpose,  and  who 
burned  to  have  the  honour  of  converting  him,  intruded  on  his  last  mo- 
ments. It  was  told  him  the  Curate  was  come;  upon  which  he  raised 
himself  a  little,  embraced  him,  and  said  "Accept  my  respects,  Sir."— 
It  seemed  in  the  minds  of  the  byestanders,  as  if  he  meant  to  say  "  I  am 
charitable  towards  you  :  do  not  torment  me."  But  tiie  Curate  again 
demanded,  in  a  loud  and  confident  tone,  "  Sir,  do  you  recognize  the 
divinity  of  Jesus  Christ?"  "Sir,"  replied  Voltaire,  "leave  me  to 
die  in  peace." — "  Do  you  recognize.  Sir,"  reiterated  the  Curate, 
*'  the  divinity  of  Jesus  Christ?"  It  was  then  that  the  dying  philoso- 
pher, rousing  up  all  his  departing  strength,  and  putting  into  one  sen- 
tence the  whole  substance  of  his  theological  writings,  uttered  those 
last,  and  memorable  w^ords — '^  For  the  love  of  God,  speak  to  me  no 
more  of  that  man" 

It  is  in  this  real  account  of  the  matter,  that  the  reader  will  see  all  the 
CRUSes  of  the  false  ones.  The  bigots  were  doubly  enraged  at  this  proof 
of  his  invincible  faith,  and,  according  to  their  old  plan  (as  we  shall  pre- 
sently shew)  loaded  it  with  every  misrepresentation  which  could  be 
set  in  motion  by  revenge,  mortified  egotism,  hypocrisy,  the  downfal  of 
priestcraft,  and  the  death-bed  fears  which  are,  or  ought  to  be,  the  na- 
tural result  of  such  a  barbarity  as  the  belief  in  eternal  punishment. 

The  late  French  philosophers  in  general, — many  of  whom,  as 
D'Alembert,  Mori'tesquieu,  Ilclvotius,  &c.  were  the  most  amiable  men 
in  the  world,  died  in  a  manner  becoming  them.  Rousseau  died,  gazing, 
with  enthusiasm  on  a  setting  sun.  Their  predecessors  the  English  phi- 
losophers and  deists,  died  w  ith  similar  calmness, — Collins,  Shaftesbury, 
Adam  Smith,  Gibbon,  kc.  But  the  greatest  stumbling-block  to  the 
feet  of  those  who  bring  "  good  tidings"  of  eternal  punishment,  was 
the  death  of  Hume,  recorded  by  his  friend  Adam  Smith.  It  was  so 
chearfol,  that  they  were  then  shocked  in  a  diilerent  manner,  and  wished 
to  die,  for  their  parts,  trembling  and  in  decent  fear.  And  thus  it  has 
been  always.  If  you  are  known  to  die  with  their  trembling  and  decent 
fear,  then  they  say  you  are  frightened;  if  with  placidity,  it  is  want  of 
feeling;  if  with  chearfulness,  it  is  impudent  temerity  ;  and  if  nobody 
can  prove  how  you  died,  of  course  it  was  raving.  Your  only  refuge 
is  to  send  and  ask  how  you  are  to  die;  only  you  must  take  care  to  ask 
but  one  sect,  or  you  will  have  twenty  dilFerent  confessions  recom- 
mended, all  iiidispensibly  necessary  and  every  one  damning  the  other. 

And  now  a  Avord  or  two  of  Mr.  Barruel's  predecessors  in  these 
precious  arts  of  misrepresentation,  formerly  defended  as  well  as  at- 
tacked under  the  uunic  of  pioifs  frauds.     The  story  cf  a  frightened 


THE  INDICATOR.  127 

^eath-bpfl  is  the  oldest  as  well  as  saddest  joke  in  theological  history. 
Father  Menochio,  a  Jesuit,  one  of  the  most  popular  authorities  among 
the  Catholics,  has  a  chapter  in  his  tissue  of  Lemvierf Treatises,  upon  the 
unhappy  deaths  of  Arch-heretics.*  He  begins  with  the  old  legend  of 
Ebion,  who  for  denying  the  divinity  of  Christ,  was  killed  by  the  fall 
of  a  bathing-house.  But  what  will  the  Protestants,  who  are  so  fond 
of  attributing  unhappy  death-beds  to  the  Deists,  say  to  the  unhappy 
death-beds  attributed  to  all  their  venerable  leaders  by  the  Catholics? 
Oh, — "  a  weak  invention  of  the  enemy,"  of  course !  But  it  was  strong 
enough  to  mislead  millions  of  the  Christian  world,  and  would  have 
done  so  to  this  day,  if  such  practices  had  not  been  exposed.  The  same 
brother- Jesuit  of  Bar r\xe],  Father  Menochio,  quotes  two  authoritative 
gentlemen  of  the  name  of  Bozius  and  Cocleus,  who  say  that  Luther 
died  of  suffocation  after  a  hearty  supper.  This  is  possible,  as  he  was 
a  gross  bodied  person  ;  but  that  illustrious  obscure,  Mr.  I3ozius,  saya 
that  one  of  Luther's  own  servants  (afterwards  converted)  told  him  his 
master  had  hung  himself.  This  is  possible  also,  but  who  believes  it, 
coming  from  such  authors  ?  The  same  Bozius  says  that  Ecolarapadius 
was  run  through  by  the  devil  with  fiery  darts  ;  and  quotes  Luther's owa 
authority  for  it,  with  whom  Ecolampadius  had  differed.  Such  is  sure 
to  be  the  cause  of  these  scandalous  stories.  Osiander,  according  to  the 
same  C'atholic  authority,  after  being  struck  dumb,  "died  horribly,  like 
a  beast."  Martin  Bucer,  whom  Milton  uses  with  such  reverence  ia 
his  treatise  on  Divorce,  was  visited  on  his  death-bed,  to  the  great  terror 
of  the  persons  present,  by  "a  horrible  da;mon,"  who  dashed  him  from 
the  bed  in  such  a  dreadful  manner  as  to  sprinkle  his  bowels  about  the 
room.  Calvin,  the  great  leader  of  the  Protestant  misrepresenters  of 
death-beds,  has  an  assortment  of  horrors  suitable  to  the  doctrines  he 
preached.  Not  content  with  quoting  Beza,  as  the  authority  for  his 
having  had  a  shocking  set  of  diseases  for  four  years,  colic,  gout,  stone, 
asthma,  vomiting  of  blood,  &e.  &c.  he  is  said  to  have  died  of  a  death 
which  cannot  be  mentioned,  and  which  was  softened  down  (for  so  the 
relators,  with  a  horrible  humour,  put  it)  into  a  death  by  vermin. 

Another  Catholic  book  with  which  the  kindness  of  a  friend  has  fur- 
nished us, — a  sort  of  classical  dictionary,— -says  pithily  of  Calvin,  that 
he  was  a  great  rascal  of  Saxony  (he  was  a  Frenchman)  who  out  of  va- 
nity raised  up  a  villainous  sect,  giving  great  trouble  to  the  Romish 
Church,  and  withdrawing  from  it  the  Scotch  and  other  people.  He 
led  a  very  vicious  life,  was  a  debauchee,  and  convicted  of  q,  hqrrible 
sin.  (It  is  not  said  what.)  He  suffered  a  grievous  death,  being  eatea 
up  with  vermin. — Nuovo  Dizionario  Poetico  ed Istonco. p.  70.  Vcnezia,'— 
No  later  than  1742. 

And  now  what  does  all  this  prove,  but  that  men  embittered  by  the 
cxclusiveness  of  faith,  and  unsoftened  by  the  charities  of  philosophy, 
have  all  delighted  to  misrepresent  one  another  ?  There  are  men  un* 
doubtedly,  of  all  beliefs  and  non-beliefs,  who  had  unhappy  as  well  ag 
happy  deaths :  and  one  thing  is  certain,  that  wherever  the  death  has 

*  Le  Siuore,  ovcro  Tratteniraenti  Eriiditi  del  Padre  Gio.  Stefano  Menochio,  &c. 
&c.     Pane  Prima,  p.  208. 


128  TITE  fiVDFCATOR. 

^>een  of  the  unhappy  sort  in  question,  it  has  been  produced  by  a  belief, 
tabitUAl  or  otherwise,  in  one  of  the  most  favourite  and  horrible  dogmas 
of  the  Christian  church,-^— the  belief  in  eternal  punishment.  How  many 
Christians  in  alt  probability  have  died  wretched,  as  they  lived,  because 
of  their  inflbiiity  to  reconcile  so  shocking  a  doctrine  Mith  the  goodness 
©f  their  Maker  ?  What  a  life  did  poor  Cowper  pass,  for  that  reason  ! 
And  then  as  to  the  happy  death-beds  of  religionists,  what  do  they 
prove  for  the  exclusive  excellence  of  faiths,  in  which  so  many  have  died 
miserably?  What  does  Addison's  death,  for  instance  (if  he  really 
died  it;  Walpole  says  that  he  died  of  too  frequent  a  recurrence  to  the 
eshiliration  of  the  bottle  ;  but  this  is  no  proof  that  he  did  not  die  in  th  e 
other  way  also)  but  what  does  Addison's  ostentation  about  "  See  how 
a  Christian  can  die,"  prove  against  a  death  in  any  other  faith  ?  Do 
y,e  suppose  that  no  Mussulman  dies  happy  ;  an<l  that  he  might  not  say 
ftith  as  much  logic,  *' See  how  a  Mahometan  can  die  ?"  The  young 
Mussulman  mentioned  by  Gibbon,  exclaimed  in  battle,  "  I  see  a 
black-eyed  Ilouri  waiting  for  me  at  the  gate  of  Heaven,  and  waving  a 
green  handkerchief ;"  and  so  saying,  he  rushed  into  the  thick  of  the 
fight,  a  willing  victim. 

,  The  truth  is,  that  a  death-bed  proves  nothing  bat  that  a  man  can 
live  no  longer.  A  belief  in  shocking  dogmas  may  make  it  unhappy  ; 
^d  a  non-belief  in  them  may  help  to  make  it  easy.  But  what  absur. 
cjity  is  it  to  expect  of  any  man  that  he  shall  be  in  his  easiest  or  his  most 
confirmed  state  of  mind,  at  the  moment  of  all  others  when  he  is  most 
^'ck  and  feeble  ?  The  wonderful  thing  after  all  is,  not  that  some  men 
have  been  terrified  at  such  moments  by  the  recurrence  of  the  dogmas 
inflicted  upon  their  childhood,  but  that  so  many  men,  in  spite  of  them, 
have  di<'d  so  calmly,  so  courageously,  so  triumphantly. 
,  May  knowledge  uml  charity  go  on  irtcreasing,  till  none  of  us  shall 
suffer  more  than  the  pliyskal  evils  of  death  ;  and  ^3^n\e  of  us,  above  all, 
be  capable  of  feeling  any  kind  of  delight  in  holding  up  the  unhappy 
deai^Sj  re»l  er  pretended,  of  oth«rs. 


Printed  aod  publislw^-d  t>y  Joseph  Applf.yawd,  No*  19,  CatJierine-streef,  Strantl. 
Price  2d.— Atu\  »old  also  by  A.  Ouddon,  Importer  of  SouffH,  No.  31,  Tavistook- 
s»r^e^  Coven t-|;HTden.  Orders  received  at  the  »bove  places,  and  by  all  Book- 
sellers and  New»me«». 


OCT 


'  t'fi'efe  he' Arriving  rofind'abelut'tldtUflte/     •      "■'■"'    "  " 
Anii  takes  survey  with  buste  curious  t'j  c ; 
Kyw  this,  now  that,  lie  tasteth  teiidei'b'' 

",'     Spen^eb. 


'   .    No.  LXrX*— WfiONESDAY,  JANUARY  aist,  ^821.    , 

THE  WORKS  OF  CHARLfes  tAM^. 

[We  repeat  In  our  present  number  a  critieism  in  the  Examiner  on 
the  works  of  this  author.  H^  is  not  §0  much  known  as  he  is  admrrecl  ♦ 
iiiit  it  to  he  admired,  .and  more,  by, those  who  are  better  Ttoown,  have 
^ny  thirtg  of  the  old  laudatory  desideratum  in  it,  we  know  no  man 
who  possesses  a  more. erirviable  share  of  praise.  The  truth  is,  that  Mr. 
Jjamb  in  ^eiferal  has  performed  his, services  to  the  literary  word  sa 
dnonymQiisly,  andt  in,  his  most  trivial  suhi<^gt,5.has.,?uch  a  delicate  andi 
extreme  sen^e  of  alU  tliat  is  Kiiiman,.  that  igommoTi  readers  have  iiQt 
fcoen  aware  of  hatf  his  m<;rits,  nor  great  j[i limbers  at  his  existence.^ 
When  his  writings  wisipe'cpirected  by  tl>e  bookseller,  people  of  taste 
wore  askingj  whothi>  Mr.CharJes Xanib  waithat  hJ\d  writtep  sso  well. 
They  werfe  answer;ed,-7^|he  man  w ha  s,ei:  tho  critics  ri^ht,  about  the 
ohl  English  Dramatists,  and  whom  some  9rt«^  at  drice  their 

^hgiatttucle  and  their  false  pretensloris'by  abuging.-rBesrd?s  t][ie  works 
here  alluded  to,  Mr.  Lamb  is  the  author  of  an  interestTng'^prbser 
abridgment  of  the  Odi/ssey  under  the 'title'  o'f  the  Ac^fentures  (^Ulysses, 
and  has  helped  his  sister  irtothefHttte  works  for  phildren  (equally  fit 
for  those  "  of  a  larger  growth"),  ^*spVc|ai,Iy  piVe  cill^d  Mrs.  Leicester's 
School.  We  believe  we  are  takfng  no  grci»|er  liberty  with  him  than 
our  motives  will  warrant,  whed  we  add  tha-t  he  sometimes  writes  in 
the  London  Magazine  pnrfi^r  the  signatttre  of  Eli  A.  j 

There  is  a  spirit  in  Mr.  Lamb's  produ-ctions,  which  is  in  itself  so 
{mti.critical  and  tends  so  fitttt^h  to  f  ec^pncile  tfS.  to  all  that  is  in  the 
world,  that  the  eiFect  is  alraq^  rjeu.tralizingto  eye,ry  thing, but  compla- 
cency and  a  quiet  admiratiot\»  Wq, roust  even  plainly  confess,  that 
one  thing  which  gave  a  Laputan-flap  to  our'jdeJay  in  speaking  of  these 
volumes,  was  the  meetiqg  with  a  ffirttfey  critici'sin  In  an  orthodox  re- 
view, which  mistook  the  exquiske'sinaplicity'afid  apprehensiveness  of 
Mr.  Lamb's  genius  for  want.^f  pawer ;  and Aveat vainly  brushing  away 
at  some  of  the  solidest  tlHogs  ?n  his  vi^ork,  under  ike  notion  of  its 
being  chaff.  ,        '      '     ' 

That  the  poetical  part,  of  Mr.Xamb's  ToVuroes  (and  as  this  comes 
first,  we  will  make  the  first  half  of  our  criticism  upon  it)  is  not  so 
striking  as  the  critical,  we  allow."  Atid  thefe  are  several  reasons  for 
it; — first,  because  critfcism  inevitably  explains  itself  more  to.  the 
reader  ;  whereas  poetry,  especially  such  as.  Mr,  Lamb's,  often  gives 
him  too  much  cretlit-for  the'apprehensiveness  in  which  it  deals  itself  •■■ — 
second,  because  Mr.  Lamb's  criticism  isrobvrdu-sly  of  a  most  original 
cast^  and  direcUy  infornvs  the  reader  of  a  nupber  of  things  wbiohhe 
d*id  not  knOjW  before  ;  )vhereas  tl]e  .poetry,  for  the  ijeasoji  just  men r- 
£icmed,  leaves liim  rather  to  gather  them  : — third,  because  the  ai^fliQr'sL 

Vol.  n.  i-       ^ 


130  THE  INDICATOR. 

genius,  though  in  fact  of  an  antt-crltical  nature  (his  very  critictsnFr§ 
chiefly  tending  to  overthrow  the  critical  spirit)  is  also  less  busied  with 
creating  new  things,  which  is  the  business  of  poetry,  than  with  incul- 
cating a  charitable  and  patient  content  with  old,  which  is  a  part  of 
humanity : — fourth  and  last,  because  from  an  excess  of  this  content,  of 
love  for  the  old  poets,  and  of  diffidence  in  recommending  to  others 
what  has  such  infinite  recommendations  of  its  own,  he  has  really,  in 
three  or  four  instances,  written  pure  common-places  on  subjects 
deeply  seated  in  our  common  humanity,  such  as  the  recollections  of 
childhood  (vol.  1.  p.  71.),  the  poem  that  follows  it,  and  one  or  two  of 
the  sonnets.  But  he  who  cannot  see,  that  the  extreme  old  simplicity 
of  style  in  The  Three  Friends  is  a  part  and  constituent  recommendation 
of  the  very  virtue  of  the  subject ; — that  the  homely  versification  of  the 
Ballad  noticing  the  Difference  of  Rich  and  Poor  has.  the  same  spirit  of 
inward  reference, — that  the  little  Robert  Burton-like  effusion,  called 
HypochondriaciiSf  has  all  the  quick  mixture  of  jest  and  earnest  belong- 
ing to  such  melancholy,— and  that  the  Farewell  to  Tobacca  is  a  piece  of 
exuberant  pleasantry,  equally  witty  and  poetical,  in  which  the  style 
of  the  old  poets  becomes  proper  to  a  wit  overflowing  as  theirs, — such 
a  man  may  be  fit  enough  to  set  up  for  a  critic  once  a  month,  but  w^ 
are  sure  he  has  not  an  idea  in  his  head  once  a  quarter. 

From  this  last  poem,  which  is  an  old  friend  of  ours,  and  passages 
of  which  used  to  be,  and  are  still,  often  in  our  mouth  like  a  favourite 
tune,  we  must  indulge  our^lves  in  a  few  extracts.    It  opens  in  this 
pleasantmanner,  Cgltotor- 
May  the  Babylonish  curse 

Strait  confound  my  stammering  verse,, 

If  I  can  a  passage  see 

In  this  word-perplexily, 
'  Or  a  fit  expression  iind, 

Or; a  language  to  my  roind,  ' 

(Still  the  phrase  is  wide  or  scant) 

To  take  leave  of  thee,  GREAT  PLANT  I 

Or  in  any  terms  relate 

Half  my  love,  OF  half  my  hale;  ■■, 

For  I  hate,  yet  love,  thee  so. 

That,  whichever  thing  I  shew 

The  ptain  truth  will  seem  to  be 

A  constrain'd  hyperbole. 

And  the  passion  to  proceed 

More  from  a  mistress  than  a  weed. 

«         «         **         **« 

Bi-other  of  Bacchus,  later  born, 

The  old  world  was  sure  forlorn,  ,  . 

Wanting  thee,  that  aidest  more 

The  god's  victories  tlian  before 

All  his  panthers,  and  the  braWls 

Of  his  piping  Bacchanals. 

These,  as  stale,  we  disallow. 

Or  judge  of  </iee  meant:  only  thou  ..     ,, 

His  true  Indian  conquest  art;  ,  ,_  . 

And,  for  ivy  round  his  dart,  "    'i 

Tlie  reformed  god  now  weaves 

A  fiuer  thyrsus  of  thy  leaves.  • 

[But  want  of  room,  as  well  as  a  further  design  which  we  have  upon 
this  poem,  must  prevent  us  from  repeating  the  rest  of  our  pa^saees 

J.  ..-I    '  '  '  ■        '  ,   ,  tQm  %-ji»''T  r''    :~  " 


THE  INDICATOR.  131 

:  There- is  something  very  touching  as  well  as  vivid  in  the  poem  that 
stands  first,  entitled  Hester.  The  object  of  it  is  a  female  Quaker  who 
died  young,  and  who  appears  to  have  been  of  a  spirit  that  broke 
through  the  cold  shell  of  her  sect.  She  was  of  a  nature  so  sprightly 
and  strong,  that  the  poet,  for  some  time,  says  he  could  not 

By  force  be  led 
To  think  upon  tlie  woi;my  bed, 

Arrd  her  together, 
w         *         ♦         ♦         ♦         «      ,   » 

My  cpriglitly  neighbour,  gone  before 
To  that  unknown  and  silent  sliore, 
Shall  we  not  meet,  as  heretofore, 
Some  summer  morning. 

When  from  <hy  chearfol  eyes  a  ray 
Hath  struck  a  bliss  upon  the  day, 
A  bliss  that  would  not  go  away, 
A  sweet  fore-warning? 

If  the  Quakers  appear  to  be  the  only  real  Christians  extant,  they 
are  such  only  in  a  negative  sense.  We  allude  to  them,  of  course,  in 
general.  They  deny  themselves  a  good  deal,  but  they  allow  others 
little ;  and  this,  we  suspect,  is  Christianity  wrong  side  outwards.  A 
Quaker  will  not  be  outrageous,  and  will  not  get  drunk;  he  will  also 
prevent  his  wife  from  copying  the  beauties  of  God's  creation  in  the 
colours  of  her  dress;  and  God's  gift  of  music  he  holds  to  be  very 
small ;  but  next  to  a  hypocrite  (and  we  by  ^o  means  intend  to  con- 
found the  two),  be  would  be  the  last  man  in  the  world  to  forgive  a 
woman  taken  in  adultery,  or  to  be  present  at  an  avowed  feast,  or  to 
refer  a  money-getter  to  "  the  lilies  of  the  valley  which  toil  not,"  or  to 
patronise  -the  wastex)f  a  box  of  precious  ointment  for  the  sake  of  a  sen- 
timent. If  a  true  Christian  means  anything,  it  means,  "We  suspect, 
something  which  would  startle  all  the  commonly  received  notions  and 
establishments  out  of  their  wits;  and  is  made  up  of  a  mixture  of  Pla^ 
tonism  in  speculation,  and  a  community  of  good  in  practice,  equally 
calculated  to  baffle  the  despisers  of  tlve  ancient  world,  and  the  sharers 
of  the  present.  When  a  Quaker,  or  a.  Metbpdist,  or  an  indiilerent 
Churchman,  talks  of  Christianity,  we  see  in  it  nothing  but  vain  nega- 
tion, or  fanaticism,  or  worldliness.  All  these  men  send  those  who 
differ  with  them  to  the  devil,  and  know  no  more  about  the  finer  aspi- 
rations of  one's  nature  than  any  bad  passion  or  selfishness  can.  It  is 
difficult,  fro^  his  works,  to  collect  whether  Mr.  Lamb  is  a  professed 
Christian  or  not.  The  Calvinist  would  surely  pronounce  against  him, 
because  he  dearies  eternal  punishment ;  the  Quaker,  because  he  finds 
out  something  mor£  than  pardonable  in  the  vehement  passions ;  and  all 
other  Protestants,  because  at  the  sight  of  a  picture  hy  Leonardo  da 
yinci,  he  wishes  to  be  a  Catholic,  that  he  may  worship  the  Madonna. 
All  this  must  be  oaveare  to  the  Chri^ti^n  multitude.  It  is  another  ver- 
sion of  the  sentiment  about  the  box  of  ointment.  Yet  the  less  Chris- 
tian he  may  be  thought  to  be  in  these  matters,  the  finer  spirit  of  reli- 
gious feeling  is  there  iu  the  following  lines  on  the  same  picture.  They 
are  a  recoguitioij,  n/Jt  of  Catholic  bigotry,  but  of  the  diviner  aspinitions 
of  our  being,  wuder  ivhatever  devout  shape  they  appear,  and  which 
always  appear  fittest  and  most  probable  when  connected  with  ideas  of 
chiklrlilw;  innocence  and  joy.  Filicaia  or  Tasso  might  have  been 
proud  <?f  »;riting  them ;  aud,  by  the  way^  it  would  have  done   both 


135  THE  INDICATOR. 

niicaia  and  Tasso  good,  and  made  them  less  perturbed  Christians,  had 
they  possessed  what  they  would  have  called  the  Anti-christian  tolerance 
in  the  rest  of  our  author's  works  :-^- 

WNES  ON   THE    CELpORATED   PICTURE   BY  LEONARDO   DA   VINCI,    CALLED   THE  VIRGIN 

OF   THE   ROCKS. 

Wliile  yotinp  John  runs  to  greet 

The  greater  Infant's  feet, 

The  Mother  standing  by,'  with  trembling  passion 

Of  devout  admiration,      - 

Heholds  the  engaging  mystic  play,  and  pretty  adoration  ; 

Nor  knows  as  yet  the  full  event 

Of  those  so  low  beginnings, 

From  whence  we  date  our  winnings, 

But  wonders  at  the  intent 

Of  those  new  rites,  and  what  that  strange  child-worship  meant. 

But  at  her  side 

An  angel  doth  abide, 

"With  such  a  perfect  joy 

As  no  dim  doubts  alloy, 

An  intuition, 

A  glory,  an  amenity, 

Passing  the  dark  condition 

Of  blind  hamauily, 

A^  if  he.surely  knew  ,  . 

All  the  blest  wonders  should  ensue, 

Or  he  had  lately  left  the  upper  sphere, 

And  had  read  all  this  sovran  schemes  and  divine  riddles  there. 

The  tragedy  of  John  IVoodvil]  which  we  think  liable  in  some  mea- 
sure to  Mr.  Coleridge's  objection  mentioned  in  the  Dedication,  of  its 
being  a  little  too  over-antique  in  the  style,  gave  rise,  partly  on  that 
account,  to  less  fortunate  objection  from  the  critics  on  its  first  appear-i 
ance.  People  were  not  acquainted  then  as  they  are  now  with  the 
•okler  drattiatists ;  and  the  critics,  finding  it  a  new  production  which 
was  like  none  of  their  select  common-places,  confounded  the  oldness 
df  the  style  and  the  manly  and  womanly  simplicity  of  the  sentiment^ 
with  something  hitherto  unheard  of,  equally  barbarous  and  mawkish. 
They  have  since  learnt  belter,  partly,  perhaps  chiefly,  from  the  infor- 
mation of  this  very  author:  and  it  is  doubtless  a  good  deal  owing  td 
this  circumstance,  that  some  of  them  chnse  to  abstain  from  noticing 
this  publication,  the  better  natured  from  a  feeling  of  aukwardness, 
fl,nd  the  malignant  from  havingsince  turned  commentators  on  old  play;* 
themselves.  The  tragedy  of  John  Woodvil  has  this  peculiarity, — that 
it  is  founded  on  a  frailty  of  a  very  unheroic  nature,  and  ends  with  no 
punishment  to  the  oftender  but  repentance.  Yet  so  finely  and  hui 
manly  is  it  managed,  with  such  attractions  of  pleasantry  and  of  pathos, 
that  these  circumstances  become  distinguishing  features  of  its  excel- 
lence; and  the  reader  begins  to  regret  that  other  poets  have  not 
known  how  to  reconcile  moral  lessons,  so  familiar  and  useful,  with  the 
dignity  of  dramatic  poetry.  Sir  Walter  Woodvil,  a  gentleman  of  an 
ancient  family,  who  had  taken  part  against  Charles  the  First,  is  obliged 
to  hide  himself  at  the  Restoration.  His  son,  left  in  possession  of  the 
family  mansion,  grows  in  the  mean  time  riotous  and  dissipated,  after 
the  court  fashion;  and  partly  from  his  natural  frankness,  is  excited 
during  the  fever  of  drunkenness  to  intrust  the  secret  of  his  father's 
hiding-place  with  one  Lovel,  a  bottle-companion  and  supposed  friend. 
Sir  Walter  is  in  consequence  sought  out  in  Sherwood  Forest  by  Lovel 
and  auot|ier  drinking  associate,  and  during  a  violent  parley  between 


THE  INDlCAtOR:  m 

the  two  intruders  and  his  faithful  younger  son  Simon,  breaks  hh  heart, 
willmut  a  irord.  This  is  as  true  a  piece  of  pathos  as  we  remember  in 
tragedy.  John  Woodvil,  after  great  vvretchedrie&s  of  mind,  leaves  the 
reader  to  suppose  that  he  is  restored  to  coitiparatiVe  peace,  partly  by 
the  force  of  repentance,  and  partly  by  the  attfentionS  of  Margaret,,  aii 
orphan  ward  of  his  late  father,  and  a  mesfc  noble  creature,  whose  cha- 
racter alone  would  serve  to  shew  the  generoos  delicacy  of  the  authoi's 
genius.  During  his  unhappy  and  noisy  prosperity,  John,  though 
avowedly  her  lover,  treats  her  with  unceasing  neglect,  and  under  the 
peculiar  circumstances  of  her  situation  she  thinks  It  becoming  a  proper 
pride  in  her  to  go  and  seek  out  Sir  Walter,  and  to  unite  her  helping 
fortunes  with  him  and  his  younger  son.  She  does  so,  and  only  shews 
that  John  has  treated  her  unhandsomely  by  turning  away  with  a  tear 
when  the  question  is  asked  her,  and  then  resuming  her  kindly  asfject 
of  society.  After  the  catastrophe  which  happens  to  Sir  Walter,  she 
excuses  John  as  Avell  as  she  may,  resolves  at  all  events  not 
To  join  ili«  clamour  of  the  world 
Again!<t  her  friend, 

and  again  appears  before  him  to  shew  him  that  sympathy  in  adversity, 
which  he  refused  to  cultivate  in  her,  during  prosperity.  The  best 
passages  in  this  play  are  the  pathetic  ones  ;  but  as  these  depend  a  good 
deal  on  the  context,  and  are  more  pervading  than  the  others,  we  must 
content  ourselves  with  selecting  some  lines  of  beautiful  description, 
Simon  Woodvil  says  that  he  loves  all  things  that  live 

From  the  crook'd  worm  to  cnair.s  imperial  form, 

And  God-resembling  likeness.     Tlie  poor  fly. 

That  makes  short  holyday  in  the  sun-beam, 

And  dies  by  some  child's  hand.     The  feeble  bird 

With  little  wings^yet  greatly  ventnrows 

In  the  upper  sky.     The  fish  in  tli'  oilier  element. 

That  knows  no  touch  of  eloquence.     What  else  ? 

Yon  tall  and  elegant  stag. 

Who  paints  a  dancing  shadow  of  his  horns 

In  the  water,  where  he  drinks. 

MARGARET. 

I  myself  love  all  these  things,  yet  so  as  wiili  a  difTerence:— for  example,  some 
animals  better  than  others,  some  men  rather  than  otlicr  men;  the  nightino-yle  before 
the  cuckoo,  the  swift  and  graceful  pultrey  before  the  slow  and  asinine  miile.     Yotii" 
humour  goes  to  confound  all  qualities. 
What  sports  do  you  use  in  the  forest? — 

SIMON. 

Not  many;   some  few,  as  thns: — 
To  see  the  sun  to  bed,  and  to  arise. 
Like  some  hot  amourist  with  glowing  eyes, 
Jiursling  tiie  lazy  bands  of  sleep  that  bound  him,    - 
With  all  his  fire^  and  travelling  glories  round  him. 
Sometimes  the  moon  on  soft  night  clouds  to  rest. 
Like  beauty  nestling  in  a  young  man's  breast, 
And  all  the  winking  stars,  her  handmaids,  keep 
Admiring  silence,  while  those  lovers  sleep. 
Sometimes  outstretcht,  in  very  idleness. 
Nought  doing,  saying  little,  thinking  less, 
To  view  tlie  leaves,  thin  dancers  upon  air. 
Go  eddying  round  ;  and  small  birds,  how  they  far?, 
When  mother  Autumn  fills  their  beaks  with  corn, 
Ftlch'd  from  the  careless  Amalthea's  horn; 
And  how  the  woods  berries  and  worms  provide 
Without  their  pains,  when  earth  has  uou^hl  beside 
Tu  aubwer  llieir  saiali  want:-. 


m      .  THE  INDICATOn. 

To  view  tlie  graceful  deer  come  tripping  by, 

Then  stop,  and  gaze,  then  turn<  they  ivnow  not  why, 

LiJii  bashful  younkers  in  society. 

To  mark  the  structure  ofa  plant  or  tree, 

And  ol4  fair  things  of  earth,  how  fair  they  be. 

"The  pathetic  of  this  tragedy  is  after  all  inferior  to  that  of  the  story 
of' Rosamund  Gray^  which  very  properly  stands  at  the  head  of  the 
pros^  part  of  Mr.  Lamb's  Works,  and  is  one  of  the  most  painful  yet 
delightful  in  the  world.  There  is  one  part  of  it,  in  which,  to  be  sure, 
the  pain  greatly  predominates  ;  but  this  is  told  very  briefly,  and  with 
something  beyond  delicacy :  and  we  have  here  to  make  a  remark 
which  has  often  struck  ns;— namely,  that  in  the  most  painful,  most 
humiliating,  and  even  most  overwhelming  and  stupifying  death  of  a 
virtuous  person,  there  is  Soniething  still  which  conquers  the  conqueror. 
The  mere  fact  that  the  virtue,  the  good-heartedmess,  the  sentiment  (in 
whatever  shape  it  may)  of  the  sufferer  survives  to  the  last,  leaves  the 
happy-makirtg  faculty,  victorious  over. the  temporary  misfortune  how* 
ever  dreadful ;  so  that  goodness"  in  its  most  passive  shape  is  greater 
and  more  powerful  than  vice  is  in  its  most  active.  Rosamund,  like 
Clarissa  Harlowe,  is  violated  ;  but  good  God  !  what  a  difference  in  the 
management  of  the' two  stories.  Mr.  Lamb  need  not  be  alarmed  :  we 
are  not  going  to  say  that  Richardson  is  not  a  very  extraordinary  per- 
80TJ.  He  was  the  more  extraordinary  inasmuch  as  he  writes  the  most 
affecting  books,  in  a  spirit,  which  to  us  at  least  appears  one  of  the 
most  unfeeling  imaginable.  He  writes  seven  or  eight  thick  volumes  on 
the  tortures  of  a  young  woman;  and  seems  at  the  end  as  if  he  could 
have  written  seven  or  eight  more,  had  it  been  politic  as  a  matter  of 
trade.  There  is  wonderful  ability  in  his  books,  wonderful  knowledge 
of  all  sorts  of  petty  proceedings,  wonderful  variety  of  character ;  and 
with  all  this  one  cannot  help  being  interested  at  a  first  reading.  But 
in  all  the  finer  as  well  a^  larger  meanings  of  the  word,  he  wants  huma- 
nity. He  neither  knows  what  vice  nor  what  virtue  is,  properly  speak- 
ing. He  even,  not  unfrequently,  makes  them  change  sides, — his  vicQ 
being  occupied  at  any  rate  in*  some  kind  of  sympathy  w:ith  others, 
while  his  virtue  at  bottom  thinks  of  nothing  but  itself.  He  does  not, 
like  the  author  before  us,  hurry  over  an  agonizing  incident,  or  touch 
it  with  some  sweet,  unaffected,  unconscious  superiority  to  its  situa-< 
tion,  like  a  dying  flower ;  neither  does  he,  like  Shakspeare,  bring 
about  it  all  the  redeeming  graces  of  poetry  and  humanity,  like  so  many 
winged  and  deep-thoughted  angels  ; — but  there  is  a  pettiness  and  de- 
tail of  preparation, — a  pedantry  and  ostentation  of  virtue,  even  in  its 
retirements, — and  a  cool  never-ending  surgical  anatomy  of  suffering, 
equally  destructive,  in  our  minds,  of  the  real  dignity  of  the  subject, 
and  the  respectability  of  the  writer.  He  put  forth  his  thorns  and 
burrs,  with  as  vegetable  an  Indifference  as  a  thistle.  He  wrote  like  a 
sentimental  familiar  of  the  Inquisition.  He  resembled  one  af  his  own 
printing-presses, — furnished  with  formal  layers  of  literal  knowledge, 
squeezing  and  grinding  it  down  with  a  woode«  and  metallic  want  of 
remorse,  a. id  giving  off  so  many  sheets  an  hour  with  as  little  wear  and 
tear  as  a  mangle. 

But  to  return. — Rosfimiind  Gray  is  the  story  of  a  lovely  young  girl, 
a  perfect  picture  of  intelligent  innocence,  whose  family  hare  been 
brought  low  in  the  world,  and  who  grows  up  with  a  blind  old  grand- 


THE  iNDIGATOR.  135 

mother,  that  doats  and  rests  all  her  being  upon  her.  There  grows  a 
love  between  her  and  a  fine  frank-heilrted  youth,  Allan  Clare,  which 
is  described  or  rather  constantly  implied  and  felt,  with  a  world  of  de- 
licacy and  young  devotedness.  Allan  had  a  sister,  who  learned  to 
love  Rosamund  as  he  did  ;  and  one  night,  after  the  two  friends  had 
had  a  happy  long  walk  aljout  the  fields  and  green  places  near  the  vil- 
lage, Rosamund,  unable  to  get  out  of  her  head  the  scenes  which  were 
now  endeared  to  her  by  Allan's  sister  as  well  as  himself,  played  her 
grandmother  for  the  first  time  in  her  life  a  little  trick,  and  in  the  irre# 
pressible  and  innocent  enthusiasm  of  her  heart  stole  out  of  the  cottage 
to  go  over  them  again.  Matravis,  a  villain,  met  her — "  Late  at  night 
he  met  her,  a  lonely,  unprotected  virgin — no  friend  at  hand — no  placa 
neair  of  refuge," — We  thank  the  author  for  making  this  scoundrel  sal- 
low and  ugly.  It  looks  as  if  his  physical  faculties  were  perturbed  and 
bad  by  nature,  like  a  mistake ;  and  that  these  had  infected  the  huma- 
nity common  to  us  all.  Rosamund,  "  polluted  and  disgraced,  wan- 
dered, an  abandc  led  thing,  about  the  fields  and  meadows  till  d'^jr^ 
break."  She  then  did  not  go  hoine,  but  l^id  herself  dpwi>  stupified  at  - 
Elinor  Clare's  gate;  and  in  her  friend's  house  she  soon  died,  having 
first  heard  that  her  grandmother  had  died  in  the  mean  while.  The 
blind  old  woman— her  death  is  thus  related  : —  ,., 

An  old  man,  that  lay  sick  in  a  small  house  adjoining  to  Margarel'»,  testified  the 
next  morning,  that  he  had  plainly  heard  the  old  creature  callin|T  for  her  grand- 
daughter. All  the  night  leng  she  made  her  moan,  and  ceased  not  to  call  upon  the 
name  of  Rosamund,  But  no  Rosamund  was  there— ^/Ae  voice  ditd  awat/,'  but  not  tilt 
near  day-break. , 

When  the  neighbour* came  to  searcli  in  the  morning,  Margaret  was  missing  !  She 
had  s/ra^^^ed.  out  of  bed,  and  made  Iter  way  into  Rosamund's  room — worn  out  with 
fatigue  and  fright,  whenrshe  found  the  girl  not  there,  she  had  laid  herself  down  ttf 
die — and,  it  is  thought,  she  died  praying — for  she  was  discovered  in  a  kneeling  pos-s 
ture,  her  orms  and  face  extendeid  on  ttie  pillow^  where  Rosamund  had  slept 'the 
night  before — a  smile  was  on  her  face  in  deatlu  •  c     .  •   •   :  " 

"As  to  Rosamund,  she  scarcely  uttered  a  word  thence  forward* 
^'  She  expired  in  the  arms  of  Elinor^— quiet,  gentle,  as  she  lived-rir 
thankful,  that  she  died  not  among  strangers'— and  expressing  by  signs 
rather  than  wordSj  a  gratitude  for  the  most  trifling  services,  the  com- 
mon offices  of  humanity.     She  died  uncomplaining."  ,  ,   ,,    .  :,•, ,,, /|- 

Allan's  sister,  to  whom  Matravis  had  once  paid  his  addresses  theugir 
in  vatn,  died  of  a  frenzy-^ferer ;  and  the  young  blighted  lover  hifliself  is 
missed  for  a  long  while  afterwards,  till  recognized  sitting  on  his  sister's 
tombstone  in  the  village  by  his  friend  the  surgeon,  who  is  the  supposed 
author  of  the  book.  His  goodness,  his  sympathy  with  his  fellow-crea- 
tures had  survived  his  happiness  ;  and  he  was  still  the  same  gentle  yet 
manly  creature  as  ever.  His  great  enjoyment,  his  "  wayward  plea- 
siire,  for  he  refused  to  name  it  a  virtue^''*  was  in  visiting  hospitals,  a'nd 
unostentatiously  contriving  to  do  personal  and  pecuniary  services  to 
the  most  wretched.  The  surgeon  was  called  one  night  to  attend  the 
dying  bed  of  a  man  of  the  name  of  MatraviS.  Allan  went  with  him,  to 
give  the  miserable  wretch  what  comfort  he  could  :  but  he  talked  deli- 
riously, bidding  them  "  not  tell  Allan  Clare,"  who  stood  shedding 
over  him  his  long-repressed  tears. — The  paper  before  us  glimmers 
through  our  own. 

The  piece  that  follows  is  entitled  Recollections  of  Christ's  Hospital.^ 
and  is  a  favourite  with  us  on  many  accounts,  not  the  least  of  which  is, 


m  .T;HE  INDICATOR. 

that  vre  had  tho  honour  of  boing  brought  up  in  that  excclleirt  foutula- 
tion  as  M'cll  as  Mr.  Lamb  himself.  Our  liecollcctions  of  the  school 
•\vere  somewhat  latpr  than  his;  but  with  the  exc^^ption  of  a  little  lesij 
gratitude  to  one  individual,  and  of  a  single  characteristic,  which  his 
Xri(?nd  Mr.  Coleridge  had  the  chief  hand,  we  suspect,  in  altering,t(antl 
we  trust  not  essentially  or  for  the  worse),  we  can  give  cordial  testi* 
niony,  up  to  that  later  period,  of  the  fidelity  of  his  descriptions.  We 
Jcnow  not  how  completely  or  otherwise  they  may  remain;  but  .  from 
what  we  stee  of  the  Christ  Hospital  boys  in  the  streets,  especially  of 
the  older  and  more  learned  part  of  them,  and  from  the  share  which 
some,  of  our  old  school-feIlow»  have  In  the  present  tuition,  we  should 
guess  that  they  still  apply.  W«;  extract  the  following  passage,  both  a$ 
giving  a  general  character,  a,nd  as  the  best  wrjtten  in  the  pie^?.    Many 

Scrsons  iu  the  metropolis,  though  not.  |)rfi4,»p!i^! the  school,  w»U 
oubtlesi  recognize  the  truth  of  it : —    ;  ■  '   .       ' 

Tl»e  Chrisi's  Hospital  op  Blue-ctiat-boy,  h.is  a  distinctivfi'.character  of  his  oxvn,  »s 
fnr  removed  from  the  abjecl  c)nalitiG»  of  a  common  clmfrii  J-boy  a»  it  is  Frojn  the  disj- 
jritstinj:  forwardness  of  a  lad  brought  i>p  at  some  other  or4he  public  schools.  There 
w'pridein  if,  arcomtifated  from  tlie.circnmsiances  which  I'liave  desc'ribfd  as  dif- 
ferencii)<T  him  troin  lh«  former ;  mid  \\\er6  \ii^  restraining  maiiesty^  from  a  seilse  of 
pblipalion  and  dependence,  wliich  raiiSt  ever  keep  his  deportm^ent  ftojuassinoilatiajf 
to  that  of  the  latter.  His  very  <jarl),  as  it  is  antique  and  venerable,  feeds  his  self- 
Tcspect ;  as  it  is  a  badire  of  depeiidiiiice,  it  restrains  tiie  natural  petulance  of  that 
0{je  frcjm  brealcing  out  into  over-acts  sf  insolence.  This  prothices  silence  and  a-'  re- 
serve before  strangers,  yet  not  thai  cowardly  slyne«s  which  bnysmeWed  up  at  hWne 
will  fee);  he  will  speak  up  when  spoken  to,  but  the  stranser  mt»»l  begin  the  con- 
verstmi^H  with  him.  Wiihtn  lits  bounds  he  is  aH  firei>nd  phiy-?  but  in  th«  sireeia 
he  steals  along  with  a!|  the  self-concentration  of  a  young  monk.-'  He  is  neve* 
linown  to  mix  with  other  boys,  they  are  a  aort  of  laity  to  him.  All  this  proceeds,  I 
have  »io  doubt,  from  the  continual  consciousness  which  he  carries  abo(*t  him  of  the 
JvRerence  of  his  dress  from  that  of  live  rest  of  tlie  world;  with  a  modest  jealaosy 
over  himself,  lest,  by  over-hastily  mixing  with  common  and  secular  playfellows,  he- 
should  comtnit  ll»e  digtuiy  of  his  qloth.  Nor  let  any  one  lat*gh  at  this  5  for,  coiia 
sideriiig  the  propensity  of  tiie  multiuide,  and  especially  of  the  sma4fTfiultitHde,  to 
ridicule  a<iy  thing  i^niksual  jn  dress — abpve  all,  wherp  sodcpecuUarity  may^be  con- 
strued by  malice  into  a  Yiwirk  of  disparagejnent — this  reserve  will  appear  to  be  no- 
tltiog  more  than  a  wise  instinel  in  the  Blue-eoat  boy.  iThat  iti*  tieiiher  pride  nor 
fUSlicity,  at  least  that  it  lia«  v>m>e  of  the  offensive  quiilities  of  either.,  a  stranger  may 
soon  satisfy  himself  by  putting  a  cpiesiion  to  any  of  tlvese  boys!  he  ni^y  be  s»re  of 
nn  "I'sw^r  cJoucheVf  in  |terms  of  plain  civili4y,  neither  loquacious  nor  eni.barras>ed, 
Let  him  put  the  same  question  to  a  parish-boy,  or  to  one  of  the  tre(icher-c»ps  in 

^e — r-^ •  cloisters,  and  the  impudent  reply  of  the  one  shall  notfiiil  to  exasperate, 

*ny  more  than  the  certain  civility,  and  roerceiiarv  eye  to  rewardy  which  he  will 
meet  with  in  the  other*  can  fail  to  depress  and  sadden  hitn. 

[We  find  we  must  still  delay  the  conclusion  of  this  criiicism  till 
nej^t  tf  eek.3 

.j^m   ;  TO   CORRESPONDENTS.. 

'   We  are  obliged  to  the  geiitleroaji  who  favoured  «;»  withjhie  two,  nuoobers  of  the 

Cambro-Briton;  and  to  onr  friend  T.R.  for  tlteloaa  of  his  volume,  wl^iah  will  come 

back  to  him  in  a  few  days,  ,  , 

•    .1.  W.  the  first  opporlunily.  '  '  _    . 

,  The  Correspondent  who  signs  bin  letter  willt  tlve  name  of  a  cerlai^i  unhappy  polf- 

tn'ic,  is,  we  suppose,  playing  a  joke  with  it:  but  any  body  who  wishes  to  kiiotvthe 

amount  of  our  Christiatiity,  may  see  it  in  the  Ejcamincr  of  Oct.  24:,  1819. 


Printed  and  published  by  Josj'irH  ArpLEVAnn,  No.  19,  Cathpripe-sfre^t,  Strand. 
Price  2d. — And  sold  also  by  A.  Guonox,  Importer  of  Snirffs,  No.  31,  T^iyistcwk- 
•    street,  Covent-ijiitden.     Orders  received  at  the  above  places,  and  by  all  Look- 
.  ifeiiera  and  Newsmen.. 


THE    INDICATOR. 


There  he  arriving  round  abont  doth  flie, 
And  takes  survey *ith  busie  cuMofts  eye; 
V»^  this,  now  thatj  he  tasteth  tenderly. 

SpENSBKt 


No.  LXX.— WEDNESDAY,  FEBRUARY  7th,  1821. 


1*HE  WORKS  OF  CHAHLES  LAMB. 

(COSTlNtJEO  FROM  OtJll  tJl«t.) 

Isr  coming  to  the  Essays  and  their  masterly  criticism,  A«^emti9t  re- 
press opr  tfendency  to  make  extracts,  or  we  shall  neter  have  dotie. 
We,  must  content  oarselres  with  but  one  noble  passage  j  aod  \fiik 
ex^essing  4>ur  firm  conTictioii,  that  to  these  Essays,  including  I'emarks 
on  the  performance  of  Sbakspeare's  tragedies,  and  the  little  notices  of 
-liiS  coht^mporaries  originally  published  rn  the  well-known  Speci'^ 
inens  of  the  Old  English  Dramatists^  the  public  are  indebted  for  that 
keener  perception  and  more  poetical  apprehetision  of  the  gentus  of 
those  ■  illustrious  men,  tvhich  has  become  so  disthiguishing  afeatarie 
among  the  literary  opinions  of  the  day.  There  was  a  relish  of-  it  iti 
'  Seward,  but  a  small  one,  nor  did  his  contemporaries  sympathize  eteh. 
-•with  that.  The  French  Revolution,  which  for  a  time  took  away  atten- 
'tion  from  every  thing  but  politics,  had  a  great  and  new  effect  in  rou9- 
'tng  up  the  thittking  faculties  in  every  respect;  and  the  mind, 
strengthened  by  unusual  action,  soon  pierced  through  the  flimsy  com- 
•  mon-places  of  the  last  half  century.  By  degrees,  they  were  all  broken 
up  J  and  though  some  lively  critics,  who  saw  only  the  more  eccentric 
part  of  the  new  genius  and  confounded  it  with  the  genius  itself,  re- 
edified  them,  they  were  too  late,  as  now  begins  to  be  pretty  generally- 
felt.  Mr.  Ijamb,  whose  resemblance  to  the  old  poet>  in  his  tragedy 
•was  ludicrously  taken  for  imbecility,. had  sown  his  criticisms  a«  well 
as  bis  examplo  gainst  a  genial  day;  it  came;  and  ]o  and  behold! 
the  very  critics,  who  cried  out  the  most  disdaiafully  against  him, 
adopted  these  very  criticisms,  most  of  them,  we  are  ashamed  to  say, 
without  any  acknowledgment.  But  he  is  now  beginning  to  receive  his 
proper  praise,  after  waiting  for  it  in  the  most  quiet  and  unassuming 
manner  periiaps  of  any  writer  .Hving.  The  following  is  the  passage 
we  alluded  to  :— 

Vol.  II. 


138  THE  INDICATOR. 

So  to  ste  Lear  acled, — to  se<»  an  old  man  totterinp  about  the  stage  with  a  walk- 
ing-stick, turned  out  of  doors  by  liis  d;nighter8  in  a  rainy  night,  has  nolliing  in  it 
ijut  wliat  is  painful  and  disoustin^.  We  want  to  lake  him  into  shelter  and  relieve 
liim.  That  is  all  the  feeling  which  the  actin<r  of  Lear  ever  produced  in  me.  But 
the  Lear  of  Shakspeare-cunnol  be,  acted.  The  contemptible  machinery  by  which 
they  mimic  the  storm  which  he  goes  oiit  vu^  is  not  n&ore  inadequate  to  represent  the 
horrors  of  the  real  elements,  than  any  actor  can  be  to  represent  Lear :  they  migitt 
more  easily  propose  to  personate  the  Satan  of  Milton  upon  a  stage,  or  one  of  Michael 
Angelo's  terrible  figures.  The  greatness  of  Lear  is  not  in  corporal  dimension,  but 
in  intellectual  :  the  explosions  of  his  passion  are  terrible  as  a  volcano:  they  are 
storms  turning  up  and  disclosing  to  i\\e  bottoroi  that  sea>.h.is  mind,  with  all  its  vast 
riches.  It  is  his  mind  whie4i  is  laid  bar«.  This  ease  of  flesh  and  blood  seems  too 
insignificant  to  be  thought  on  ;  even  as  he  himself  neglects  it.  On  the  stage  we 
see  nothing  but  corporal  infirmities  and  weakness,  the  impotence  of  rsge;  while  we 
read  it,  we  see  not  Lear,  but  we  are  Lear, —  we  are  in  his  mind,  we  are  sustained 
by  a  grandeur  which  baffles  the.raaljce  of  dau.gblexs.and  storms;  in  the  aberrations 
ef  his  reason,  we  discover  a  mighty  irregular  power  of  reasoning,  immetliodized 
from  tli£„ordinary,pu!tpqses  of  life,  but  exerting  its  powers,j'as  Jli>  v^rid  bid'fvs  where 
it  listeth,  at  will  upon  the  corruptions  and  abuses  of  maukind.  What  have  looks 
or  toBes  to  do  with  that  sublime  identification  of  his  age  with  that  of  the  heavens 
themselves,  when  in  his  reproaches  to  them  for  conniving  at  the  injustice  of  his  chil- 
dren, he  reminds  them  that  "  they  themselves  are  old?"  What  gesture  shall  we 
appropriate  to  this?  What  has  the  voice  or  the  eye  to  do  with  such  things  ?  But 
the  play  is  beyond  all  art,  as  the  tamperi.ngs  with  it  shew  :  it  is  too  hard  and  stony; 
it  must  have  love-scenes,  and  a  happy  ending.  It  is  not  enough  that  Cordelia  is  a 
daughter,  she  must  shine  as  a  lover  loo.  Tate  has  put  his  hook  in  the  nostrils  of 
this  Leviathan,  for  Garrick  and  his  followers,  the  showmen  of  the  scene,  to  draw 
.the  mighty  beast  about  more  easily.  A  happy  ending  I — as  if  the  liviftg  martyrdom 
thi^t  Learhad.goue  through, — tlie  flaying  of  his  feelings  alive,  did  not  make  a  fajr 
dismissal  from  the  stageof  life  the  only  decorous  thing  for  him.  If  he  is  to  live  and 
be  happy  after,  if  hecould  sustain  this  world^s  burden- after,  why  all  this  poddtr 
»»d:prepaFation, — why  torment  us  with  all  this  unnecessary  sympathy  ?  As  if  tlik! 
'fchildiiih  pleasureof  getting  his  gilt  robes  and  sceptre  again  could  tempt  him  to,act 
oyeragaiu  his  mi!s.used  station, — as  if  at  his.years,,  and  with  his  experience,  ^iw 
"thiiig'was  left  but  to  die.  -       -. 

**  With  the  Letters  under  assumed  signatures,  some  of  which  are  in 
an  exquisite  taste  of  humour  and  wisdon*  united,  many  of  our  readers 
j^re;  acquainted  through  the  medium  of  the  Reflector.  Some  of  the 
^pleasantries  are  among  what  may  be  called  our  prose  tones,— things 
.■which  we  repeat  almost  involuntarily  wlten  we  are  in  the  humour,— 
\as  the  one  for  instance  about  the  coflin  handles  "with  wrought  gripes  j" 
,and  the  drawn  battle  between  Death  and  the  ornamental  drops,  at 
Ip.  145,  vol.  2. 

The  undramatic  mistake  of  the  Farce  at  the  conclusion  of  the  vo- 
:  lumes  is,  that  the  humour  is  really  too  entertaining  and  the  interest  too 
muQlr  excited  not  to  lead  to  inevitable  disappointment  when   the  mys- 
terious Mr.  H — ,  who  has  such  a  genteel  horror  of  disclosing  his  nam«, 
turns  out  to  hRve  no  worse  a  patronymic  than  Hogsflesh.     It  is  too 
desperate  an  appeal  to  the  nominal  infirmities  common  to  great  nuiia- 
toers  of  people.     Had  it  been   Mr.  Hofridface,  or  Mr.  Hangman,  or 
.Mr.  Highwayman,  or  Mr.  Horn-owl,  Hag-laugh,  or  Mr.  Hellish,  it 
,  might  have  been  a  little  better ;  but  then  these  would  not  have  been  so 
natural ;  in  short,  nothing  would  have  done  to  meet  so  much  expec- 
tation. 

If  we  were  to  make  a  summary  of  Mr.  Lamb's  merits  as  a  writer, 
we  should-say  that  there  was  not  a  deeper  or  more  charitable  observer 
existing.     He  has  none  of  the  abhorrent  self-loves  that  belong  to  Icssep- 


THE  INDICATOR.  .141 


Everj'  one  by  nature  bath — a  mould  which  lie  was  cast  ins 
I  happeu  to  be  one  of  ihoiie — who  never  could  write  fasting  ; 
By  a  single  little  boy — I  should  be  sarpass'd  in 
Writing  so :  I'd  just  as  lief — be  buried,  tombM  and  grass'd  in. 

Every  one  by  nature  hath — a  sjift  too,  a  dotation. 
I,  when  I  make  verses, — do  get  the  inspiration 
Of  the  very  best  of.witie — 'that  comes  into  tlie  nation. 
It  maketh  sermons  to  abound — for  edification. 

Just  as  liquor  floweth  good — floweth  forth  my  lay  s«; 
But  I  must  moreover  eat — or  1  could  not  say  so; 
Nought  it  availeih  inwardly — should  I  write  all  day  so; 
But  with  God's  grace  after  meat> — I  beat  Ovidius  Naso. 

Neither  is  there  given  to  me — prophetic  animation. 
Unless  wlien  I  have  eat  and  drank — yea,  ev'n  to  saturation; 
Tlien  in  my  upper  story — hath  Bacchus  domination. 
And  Phcebus  rusheth  into  me,  and  beggareth  all  relation. 


THE  LAST  ACT  OF  TASSO'S  AMYNTAS. 

In  consequence  of  having  mislaid  an  article  prepared  for  publica- 
tion, the  Editor  is  compelled  to  make  up  his  present  number  with  the 
last  act  of  his  translation  of  Aroyntas.  We  believe  the  publisher  will 
not  quarrel  with  the  liberty  we  take  with  our  *'  own  otheromanV* 
book  ;  and  hope  that  the  reader  will  be  as  tolerant. 

CHORUS   AND    ELPINO. 


Truly  the  law,  with  which  imperial  Love 

Governs  eternally,  is  not  a  harsh 

Nor  crooked  law  ;  and  wrongly  are  his  works 

i'ondemned,  being  full  of  a  d«ep  providence. 

Oh  with  what  art,  and  through  what  unknown  pattis 

Conducts  he  man  to  happiness;  and  when 

His  servant  thinks  himself  plunged  down  to  the  deptha 

Of  evil,  lifts  him  with  a  sparkling  hand. 

And  places  in  his  amorous  paradise! 

Lo,  here,  Amyntas  casting  himself  down 

Precipitous,  ascends  at  once  to  the  top 

Of  all  hisjny.    O  fbrtanate  Amyntas! 

By  so  much  more  the  happier,  as  thou  wcrl 

Unhappy!    Thine  example  gives  me  hope, 

^liat  that  most  fair  and  unaffectionate  thing 

Under  whose  smile  of  pity  is  concealed 

An  iron  for  my  soul,  may  heal  at  last 

With  a  true  pity  what  her  false  ha&  wounded. 


He  who  comes  hither  is  the  wise  Elpino. 
I  hear  him  talking  of  the  dead  Amyntas, 
As  though  he  were  alive,  calling  Jtiro  blest 
Aud fortunate.     Ah!  tliubitiat  with  lovers; 


•142 


THE  INDICATOR. 


We  ■<liti>k  tl^e  lover  fortunate  who  dies, 

And  so  tiiulii  piiy  \n  hi«  lady's  heart; 

And  this  we  call  a  Paradise  and  long  for ! 

'yVith  what  liphl  bounty  does  the  winged  pod 

Content  his  servants  ! — Art  thou  then,  Cipino, 

So  miserable  too,  tlint  thou  esleemest 

'llie  miserable  end  of  poor  Amyntas 

A  blessing,  and  would'st  reach  the  same  thyself! 


BejoyfiiK  friends;  if  w.is  a  false  report 
That  told  us  of  his  death. 

cnoRvs. 

O  blessed  news! 
But  did  he  not  then  cast  himself  from  the  hills? 


He  did  ;  but  'twas  a  cast  so  fortunntp. 
That  in  the  shape  of  death,  a  vital  joy 
Received  him  in  its  arms:  and  now  he  lies 
Lapt  in  the  bosom  of  his  lady  adored, 
Who  is  as  kind  as  stre  wast  nrd,  ond-kisses 
With  her  own  month  the  sorrow  from  his  eyes. 
My  business  now  is  with  Montanu  her  father. 
To  brint;  liim  where  they  are;  for  his  consent 
Atone  is  wanting  to  their  mutual  love. 

CHORUS. 

Alike  their  age,  their  gentle  blood  alike. 

And  now  their  wishes  harmonize.     The  old  mart 

Has  wished,  1  know,  for  grandchildren,  to  make 

A  happy  circle  round  about  his  age; 

So  that  his  wishes  must  conform  with  theirs. 

Bi>t  oh,  Elpino,  w!iat  kind  God  or  chance 

Rescued  Amyntas  from  that  perilous  leap  ? 


1  shall  delight  to  tell  ye.     Hear,  then,  J)ear, 

What  with  these  eyes  I  saw.     I  was  in  front 

Of  my  ovyn  cave,  which  lies  beside  the  hill. 

Just  where  it  parts  on  meeting  with  the  valley. 

And  makes  a  kind  of  lap.'    I  was  conversing 

With  Thyrsis  upon  one,  who  in  Iter  net 

Him  first,  and  afterwards  myself,  took  fast; 

And  I  was  saying  how  much  I  preferred 

My  sweet  captivity  to  his  flight  and  freedom; 

When  suddenly  there  was  a  cry  in  the  air  ; 

And  we  beheld  a  man  shoot  headlong  down 

From  the  top  of  the  hill,  and  fall  upon  some  bushes. 

There  grew  on  the  hill  side,  just  over^eid, 

A  little  queach  of  bushes  and  of  thorns. 

Which  being  closely  intertwisted,  made 

A  sort  of  flowering  hurdle.    'Twas  on  that 

He  pitclied,  before  the  rougher  juts  liad  hurt  Iiim ; 

And  though,  he  weighed  it  down,  and  so  came  rolling 

Almost  before  our  feet,  yet  it  had  broken 

His  fall  enough  to  hinder  it  from  killing. 

He  was  so  hurt  however,  that  he  lay 

An  hour  or  more  quite  stunned  and  without  setibe. 

The  sudden  spectacle  had  struck  us  unite 

With  pity  and  horror  seeing  who  ii  was; 


THJE  INDICApja.  139^ 

understandings.  lie  takes  little,  and  grants  much.  He  sees  through 
all  the  causes  or  circumstances  that  modify  the  human  character  ;  and 
■while  he  likes  from  sympathy,  he  dislikes  with  generosity  and  since- 
rity, and  differs  rather  than  pretends  to  be  better.  If  there  is  any 
thing  indeed  that  look«  like  affectation  in  the  most  sincere  and  unaf- 
fected temper  of  his  writings,  it  arises  partly  from  the  excess  of  his 
sympathy  with  his  species,  and  partly  from  a  wish  to  make  the  best  of. 
all  which  they  do  or  suffer  ;  and  it  leads  him  into  the  only  inconsis- 
tency that  we  can  trace  to  him.  As  an  admirer  for  instance  of  Chris- 
tianity, and  perhaps  as  a  Christian  himself  in  the  truiest  sense  of  the 
■word,  he  sympathizes  exceedingly  with  patience  and  gentleness  and 
the  forgiveness  of  wrongs.  This  also  appears  to  be  his  own  temper  ; 
but  then  he  seems  fearful  lest  this  should  be  construed  into  a  weak- 
ness instead  of  a  strength;  and  so  from  turning  his  sympathy  to 
another  side  of  human  nature,  he  palliates  some  of  the  most  vehement 
and  doubtful  passions,  and  has  a  good  word  to  say  now  and  then  in 
behalf  of  revenge  itself.  The  consequence  of  this  exceeding  wish  to 
make  the  best  of  things  as  they  are  (we  do  not  speak  politically,  but 
philosophically),  is,  that  his  writings  tend  rather  to  prepare  others  for 
doing  good  wisely,  than  to  help  the  progress  of  the  species  themselves. 
It  is  this  sympathy  also,  which  tends  to  give  his  criticism  a  more  pro- 
minent effect,  than  his  poetry.  He  seems  to  think  that  poetry  as  well 
as  prose  has  done  esough,  when  it  reconciles  men  to  each  other  as 
they  are ;  and  that  after  Shakspeare  and  others,  it  is  useless  to  say 
much  on  this  subject;  so  that  he  deals  little  in  the  abstractions  of 
fancy  and  imagination.  He  desires  no  better  Arcadia  than  Fleet- 
street;  or  at  least  pretends  as  much,  for  fear  cjf  not  finding  it. — Mr. 
Lamb's  style  is  sound,  idiomatic  English,  equally  free  from  the  foreign 
invasions  of  the  pedantic,  and  the  freaks  o-f  us  prose  coiners,  who 
dabble  in  a  light  mint  of  our  own  for  lawless  purposes.  It  is  variously 
adapted  to  the  occasion.  If  he  is  somewhat  too  ^ntij^uated  in  his 
verse,  he  is  familiar,  short,  and  striking,  in  his  more  passionate  prose 
narrative  :  and  in  his  criticisms,  flowing  and  eloquent.       ■ 

Among  the  poems  \ve  ought  not  to  forget  two  or  three  by  the 
author's  sister,  who  is  the  main  writer,  if  we  mistake  not,  in  some 
excellent  little  publications  for  schools.  There  is  a  delightful  family 
likeness  in-the  turn  of  her  genius.  One  of  these  little  pieces  in  parti- 
cular (on  a  Picture  of  Ttco  Females  by  Leonardo  Da  Vinpi)  looks  like 
an  epitome  of  his  whole  philosophy, — full  of  sympathies  with  this 
world,  yet  with  a  thoughtful  eye  to  the  world  unknown.  It  sets  out 
ID  a  fine  stately-moving  manner,  like  the  noble  young  beauty  of  which 
it  speaks^— Mr.  Lamb  has  addressed  a  sonnet  to  his  sisterj  full  of  a, 
charming  deference  and  gratitude. 


m  THE  INDICATOR. 


THE  JOVIAL  PRIESrS  CONFESSION. 

There  is  already  an  imitation  by  Mr.  Huddesford  of  the  following 
reverend  piece  of  wit ;  and  one  of  the  passages  in  it  beats  any  thing  in 
the  present  version.     It  is  the  beginning  of  the  last  stanza,-«- 

Mysterious  and  prophetic  trutiis 

I  never  could  unfold  *eai,  .  > 

Without  a  ilagon  of  good  wine. 

And  a  slice  of  cold  hatn. 

The  translation  here  offered  to  the  reader  is  intended  to  be  a  more 
literal  picture  of  the  original,  and  to  retain  more  of  its  intermixture 
of  a  grave  and  churchman-like  style.  We  subjoin  the  original  itself 
as  a  thing  too  good  not  to  be  repeated,  and  not  common  enough  to  be 
very  easily  found.  It  is  preserved  in  the  Remains  of  the  learned 
Camden,  who  says  in  his  usual  pleasant  way,  that  "  Walter  de  Mapes^ 
Archdeacon  of  Oxford,  who  in  the  time  of  King  Henry  the  Second 
filled  England  with  his  merriments,  confessed  his  love  to  good  liquor 
in  this  manner  :"-^ 

Mihi  est  propositMm  in  tabernci  mori, 
Vinutn  sit  appositum  morietttis  ori ; 
Ut  dicant,  chm  venerint,  Angeloriim  chorv, 
Deusstt  propilius  huic  potatori. 

Poculis  accenditur  animi  lucerna,  , 

Cor  imbutum  nectare  volat  ad jiuperna. 
]Vf  ihi  sapit  dulcius  vinum  in  t'aberna, 
Quam  quod  acqua  miscuit  prassulis  pincerns. 

Suum  curque  proprium  dat  natura  tnunus, 
Ego  nunquatn  potui  scribere  jejunus; 
]Me  jejunum  vincere  posset  puer  unus  ; 
Sititn  et  jejunium,  odi  tanquam  funus. 

Uni  cuique  proprium  dat  natura  donumi 
Ego  versus  faciens,  vinum  bibo  bonum, 
£t  quod  liabent  melius  dolia  cauponum. 
Tale  vinum  general  copiam  sermonum. 

Tales  versus  facio^  quale  vinum  bibo, 
Nihil  possum  scribere,  nisi  sumpto  cibo. 
Nihil  valet  penitus,  quod  jejunum  scribo, 
Nasonem  post  calicas  carmine pr»ibo.  . 

Mihi  nunquam  spirilus  prophetis  datnr, 
Nisi  tunc  citm  fiieTit  venter  bene  satur ; 
Cum  in  arce  cerebri  Bbcclius  dominatur. 
In  me  Phcebus  irruit,  ac  miranda  fatur. 

I  device  to  end  my  days— in  a  tavern  4r>nl<ing, 

IVIay  some  Christian  hold  for  me — the  glass  when  1  am  shrinkiag  { 

That  the  Cherubim  may  cry-^when  they  see  me  sinking, 

God  be  merciful  to  a  soul— of  this  gentleman's  way  of  thinking. 

A  glass  of  wine  amazingly — enlightenelh  one's  initernals. 
*Tis  wings  bedewed  with  nectar — that  ily  up  to  supernals. 
Bottles  cracked  in  taverns — have  much  the  sweeter  kernels. 
Than  the  sups  allowed  to  us-r-in  the  college  journals. 


THE  INDICATOR.  i4S 

But  our  conviction  that  he  was  not  dead. 
And  hopes  to  see  liim  well,  made  the  shock  less. 
Thyrsis  then  fjave  me  all  the  wliole  recotnit 
Of  hi>  sad  story  with  its  liopeless  love; 
And  while  we  were  endieavourin^;  to  revive  him, 
Havins,  meanwliile  sent  for  Alphesihceus 
To  whom  Apollo  gave  the  art  of  healing;. 
When  he  gave  me  flie  poet's  harp  and  quill, 
Daphne  and  Sylvia  }Si\\o  (as  I  found  afterwiirds) 
Were  searching  for  the  body  they  thought  dea<l. 
Arrived  together;  but  when  Sylvia  recogiiised 
Amyntas,  and  beheld  liis  beautiful  cheeks 
So  loveiily  discoloured,  that  no  violet 
Could  pale  more  sweetly,  it  s©  smote  oit  lier. 
That  she  seemed  ready  to  breathe  out  her  soul. 
And  then  like  a  wild  Baccliante,  crying  out 
And  smiting  her  fair  bosom,  she  fell  down 
Right  on  the  prostrate  body,  face  ta  face. 
And  mouth  to  mouth. 

CHORUS. 

Did  then  no  shame  restrain 
Her  who  had  been  so  hard  and  so  denying  ? 


It  is  a  feeble  love  tliat  shame  restrains; 

A  powerful  one  bursts  through  so  weak  a  bdidle. 

Her  eyes  appeared  a  fountain  of  sweet  waters. 

With  which  she  bathed  his  cold  cheeks,  moaningiy  »-  '■•■•ii»t»  .'I .'. 

Waters  so  sweet,  thai  h^  came  back  to  life,  '       ''     ';*•''  " '  ■  * 

And  opening  his  dim  eyes,  sent  from  his  soul 

A  dolorous  "  Ah  me  !"    But  that  sad  breath 

Which  issued  forth  so  bitterly, 

Met  with  the  breath  of  his  beloved  Sylvia, 

Who  with  her  own  dear  mouth  gathered  it  up. 

And  turned  it  all  to  sweet. 

But  who  could  tell  with  what  deliciousnesa 

They  kept  in  that  embrace,  each  of  then*  sure 

Of  ('other's  life,  and  he  at  least  made  sure 

Of  his  long  love  relumed,  ' 

And  seeing  himself  bound  thus  fast  witli  her ! 

CHORUS. 

And  is  Amyntas  (hen  so  safe  and  sounds 
His  life  is  in  no  ditnger  ? 

ELPI\0. 

None  whatever. 
He  has  some  petty  scratches,  and  his  limbs 
Are  somewhat  bruised,  but  it  will  come  to  nolhin". 
And  nothhig  he  accounts  if.     Happy  he. 
To  have  given  so  great  a  proof  of  all  his  love. 
And  now  to  have  its  sweets  all  set  before  him. 
Healing  and  heavenly  food  for  his  past  toil?. 
The  Gods  be  with  ye,  friends :   I  must  resume 
My  way,  and  find  Moutano,  the  old  man.  -^- 

CBORUS. 

I  know  not  whether  all  the  bitter  toil. 
With  which  this  lover  to  his  purpose  kept, 
Aad  served,  and  loved,  and  sighed,  and  wept. 


.140  THE  INDICATOK. 

Can  give  a  perfect  »»ste'' 

To  any  «weel  soever  at  (he  last  i  ," 

But  if  indeed  the  joy 

Come  dearer  from  Kitnoy, 

I  ask  not.  Love,  for  my  delifiht. 

To  reach  lliat  beatific  heifjltt ! 

Let  others  have  that  perfect  cup  : 

Me  lei  my  mistress  gallier  op 

To  the  heart,  where  1  wonld  clitigf 

After  short  petitionHif;} 

And  let  par  refreshmenl  be 

Relished  with  no  agony  ; 

Kut  with  only  pungent  sweets, 

i^weet  disdains,  and  sweet  retreats  ; 

And  warfare,  such  as  sliii  produces 

Heart'Tsfreahing  peace  and  trucea. 


TO  COIMJE9P0NDENT9. 
Could  J.  \V<  oblige  asvt'Uh  another.copy,  of  the  article  on  Sleep  ? 

J.  Ei  wishes  that  the  article  in  the  ExaHtiner^stWoded  to  in  our  last  number,  should 
be  reprinted  in  this  publication.  We  are  «prry,  just  now  on  our4>wn  account,  aa 
well  as  his,  that  we  cannot  oblige  him ;  biit  it  is  not  aqnong  the  pl>tecis  of  the  Jndi' 
ro^o^r  to  discuss  subjects  pf  faith,  nor  would  the  paper  on  Death-oed*  have  been 
reprinted,  had  it  not  involved  rather  a  general  question  of  charity. and  philosophy, 
OS  well  as  been  convenient^  to  the  author  while  recovering. — Tlie  person  whom  we 
referred  to  the  article  in  live  £j:omiNer^  may  consult  also,  if  he  pleanes,  n  review  in 
the  same  paper,  of  a  sermon  entitled  "  The  Duties  of  Christians  towards  Deists," 
by  J.  \V.  Fox ;  or  rather,  (ij  he  was  in  earnest),  the  sermon  itseff.    . 

A  letter  signed  on  Of  J  Maid  lias  liot  been  forgotten.  Jt  has  b^en  delayed,  be- 
cause we  hoped  to  introduce  it  with  longer  remarks  than  v/e  must  ifiake  at  present; 
but  it  shall  appear  shortl^,<a(  all  events. 

Neither  must  F.  N.  suppose  that  we  have  forgolten  her  and  hetfriendf 


Printed  and  published  by  Joseph  AprLETABD,  No.  19,  Catherine-street,  Strand. 
Price  2d.— And  sold  also  by  A.  Guddon,  Importer  of  Snuffs,  No.  31,  Tavistock* 
street,  Covent-garden.  Orders  receivedat  the  above  places,  aud  by  all  Book- 
sellers and  Newsmen* 


THE    INDICATOR. 


There  he  arriving  round  about  dolh  flie, 
And  takes  survey  with  l^usie  curious  eye: 
Now  this,  now  that,  he  tasteth  tenderly. 

SPGNSKR. 


No.  LXXL— WEDNESDAY,  FEBRUARY  14th,  1821. 


Vat.entine  day. 


Hail,  Bisliop  Valentine!   whose  day  this  is; 

All  tlie  air's  iliy  diocese, 

And  all  the  Chirpiiij^  choristers 

And  other  birds  are  thy  parishioners; 

Thou  marryNl  every  year 

The  lyric  lark  and  liie  grave  whispering  dove;  ' 

Tlie  sparrow,  thai  ne^jlecta  liis  life  for  love; 

The  household  birri  with  the  red  stomacher. 

Thou  mnk'st  the  bluckbird  speed  as  soon, 

As  do:li  the  <ii  Idfinch  or  the  halcyon  : 

The  husband  cock  looks  out,  and  strait  is  sped. 

And  nrieets  his  wife,  which  briiij^s  her  feather  bed. 

Thi*day  mOre  cliearfnlly  than  ever  shine. 

This  day,  whicti  might  inflame  thyself,  old  Valentine! 

Thus  sings  old  warm-hearted  and  witty-headed  Donne,  upon  the 
marriage  of  a  Prince  and  Princess,  which  hcippencd  to  take  place  upoa 
this  day.  The  Prince  and  Priucess  are  v,o\v  forgotten,  or  remembered 
only  in  a  corner  of  history  for  their  misfortunes  ;  but  old  Valentine, 
the  arbiter  of  love  and  the  birds,  is  kept  immortal  by  his  office,  and 
comes  round  again  with  the  rolling  year,  like  a  sainted  Anacreon.— 
We  shall  add  a  few  more  extracts  from  the  poets  on  this  poetical  sub- 
ject, then  a  few  from  the  prose-writers  on  the  origin  of  chusing  Valeu- 
tines,  and  close  our  number  Avith  an  article  which  was  written  by  a 
friend  in  the  Examiner  of  1819.  After  his  piece  of  homage  we  should 
certainly  have  written  nothing  of  our  own  on  the  subject,  whether  ia 
sickness  or  in  health. 

The  following  sparkling  ode  "  To  his  Valentine"  is  from  Drayton : — ■ 

TO    1113    VALENTINE. 

Muse,  bid  the  naorn  awake. 

Sad  winter  now  declines. 
Each  bird  doih  chose  n  make. 

This  day's  St.  Valentine's; 
For  that  good  bishop's  sake  ♦ 

Get  up,  and  let  lis  see. 
What  beButy  it  shall  be. 
That  foftuiie  us  assrgHS. 

Vol.  tl.  ~" 


U6  THE  INDICATOR. 

But  lo»  in  happy  lieur, 

Tfie  place  wlterein  slie  lies^ 
In  yonder  cliinbinti;  tow'r, 

Gilt  by  the  glittering  rise  ; 
O  Jove !  that  in  a  sliow'r, 
As  once  that  tliond'rer  did. 
When  he  in  drops  lay  hid, 
That  I  could  her  surprise. 

Her  canopy  I'll  draw. 

With  spangled  plumes  bedight. 
No  mortal  ever  saw 

So  ravishing  a  si<rhl ; 
That  it  the  godg  mig;ht  awe^ 
And  pow'rfully  transpierce 
The  ploby  universe. 

Out-shooting  ev'ry  light. 

My  lips  1*11  softly  lay 

Upon  her  heav'niy  cheek, 
Dy'd  like  the  dawning  day, 
As  polisb'd  ivory  sleek: 
And  in  her  ear  I'll  say; 

"  O  thou  bright  rrioriiing-star, 
'Tis  I  tliat  come  so  far. 
My  Valentine  to  seek. 

♦*  Each  little  bird,  this  tide. 

Doth  chuse  her  loved  pheer^ 
Which  constantly  abide 

In  wedlock  all  the  year, 
As  nature  is  their  guide : 
So  may  we  two  be  true. 
This  year,  nor  change  for  new^ 
As  turtles  coupled  were. 

*'  The  sparrow,  swan,  the  dove, 
Tho'  Venus'  birds  they  be, 
Yet  are  ihey  not  for  love 

So  absolute  as  we  : 
For  reason  us  doth  move  ; 
They  but  by  billing  woo : 
Then  try  what  we  can  do. 
To  whom  each  sease  is  free. 

**  Which  we  have  more  than  they. 

By  livelier  organs  sway'd. 
Our  appetite  eaeh  way 

More  by  our  sense  obey'd : 
Our  passions  to  display. 
This  season  us  doth  fit} 
Then  let  us  follow  it. 
As  nature  us  doth  lead, 

**  One  kiss  in  two  let's  break. 

Confounded  with  the  touch. 
But  half  words  let  us  speak, 
''  Our  lips  employ'd  so  much 

Until  we  both  grow  weak; 
With  sweetness  of  thy  breath, 
O  smother  me  to  death : 
Long  let  our  joys  be  such. 


THE  INDICATOR.  147 

*'  Lei's  laugli  at  tliem  that  choose 

Their  Valentines  by  lot. 
To  wear  their  names  iliat  use. 

Whom  idly  they  have  got; 
Such  poor  choice  we  refuse, 
Saint  Valentine  befriend; 
We  tluis  this  morn  may  spend. 
Else,  Muse,  awake  her  not." 

Chaucer  has  left  us  a  poem  referring  to  St.  Valentine's  Day,  called 
the  Assembly  of  Fowls.  The  birds  are  ail  gathered  before  Nature 
to  chuse  their  mates.  Ladies  who  tantalize  us  with  kissing  their  par- 
rots, will  be  pleased  to  hear  that  Nature  held  on  her  hand 

A  formell  eagle,  of  shape  the  gentillest, 
That  ever  she  among  her  workes  fond. 
The  most  benign,  and  eke  the  goodliest; 
In  her  was  every  virtue  at  his  rest 
So  far  forth,  that  Natnre  herself  had  blisse 
To  look  on  her,  and  oft  her  beak  to  kisse. 

This  eagle  (probably  an  allusion  to  some  royal  lady  of  the  time)  is 
beloved  by  three  others,  who  each  claim  her  for  their  year's  mate ; 
but  as  she  cannot  live  with  them  all,  nor  choose  any  one  in  preference 
to  another  without  a  knowledge  of  their  qualities,  she  requests  of 
Nature,  that  she  may  have  a  year's  time  to  try  the  force  of  their  at- 
tachment, upon  the  principle  of"  Qui  bien  aime,  tard  oublie— "  Well 
to  love  is  slow  to  forget.     The  request  is  granted  ; 

And  when  this  worke  bronglit  was  to  an  end. 
To  every  foule, Nature  <rave  his  make. 
By  even  acDord;  and  on  their  way  (hey  wend  ; 
And  lord  !  the  bliss  and  joy  that  they  make, 
For  eacli  of 'em  gan  other  in  his  wings  take. 
And  with  their  neckes  each  gan  other  wind, 
Thanking  alway  the  noble  goddess  of  kind. 

But  first  were  chosen  foules  for  to  sing. 
As  year  by  year  was  alway  their  usaunce. 
To  sintj  a  roundel  at  their  departing 
To  do  Nature  honour  and  pleasaunce. 
The  note,  I  trowS,  maked  was  in  Fraunce  ; 
The  words  were  such  as  ye  may  here  find 
The  next  verse,  as  I  now  have  in  mind. 

Qui  bien  ayme,  tard  oublyc.  * 

THE   bird's   song.  / 

•'  Now  welcome,  Summer,  with  thy  sunnessoft. 
That  hast  this  winter  weather  overshake  ! 
Saint  Valeniine,  thou  art  full  high  on  loft, 
Which  drivest  away  the  long  nighids  black! 
Thus  singen  smalle  funics  for  thy  sake: 
Well  have  tliey  cause  for  to  e;ladden  oft. 
Since  each  of  ihem  recovered  hath  his  make: 
Full  blissful  may  they  sing,  when  they  awake." 

*  How  pleasant  this  irregular  introduction  of  the  motto  ia!  Chaucer  says  he 
v»as  so  pleased  with  the  following  soug  of  the  birds,  that  he  remembers  it  com- 
pletely;  for  "  Qui  bien  aymcj  tard  oublye." 


143  THE  mmCATOR. 

The  poet  finishes  with  one  of  those  agreeable  allusions  to  himself  and 
his  habits,  which  make  us  intimate  with  and  love  him. 

And  with  (ke  shouting,  when  their  song  was  do. 
That  the  foul^s  niade  ai  their  flight  away, 
I  woke,  and  other  book^-i  look  me  to 
To  read  upon  ;  and  yet  I  read  alway. 
^  1  hope,  I  wis,  to  read  so  some  day, 

That  I  shall  meete  something  for  to  fare 

The  better;  and  thus  to  read  I  will  not  spare. 

Dr.  Drake,  in  his  account  of  Shakspeare  and  his  Times  (Vol.  1. 
p.  324)  has  collected  the  following  opinions  respecting  the  custom  of 
Valentines.  *'  The  tradition"  says  he,  "  that  birds  choosing  their 
mates,  on  this  day,  occasioned  the  custom  of  drawing  Valentines,  has 
been  the  opinion  of  our  poets  from  Chaucer  to  the  present  hour. 
Shakspeare  alludes  to  it  in  the  following  passage  : 

"  Goofl-morrow  friends.     Saint  Valentine  is  past; 
Begin  thes.e  wood-birds  but  to  covple  now  ?"  * 

r  *' The  ceremony  of  this  day,  however,  has  been  attributed  to  various 
sources  beside  the  rural  tradition  just  mentioned.  The  legend  itself 
of  St.  Valentine,  a  presbyter  of  the  church,  who  was  beheaded  under 
the  Emperor  Claudius,  we  are  assured  by  Mr.  Brand,  contains  nothing 
which  could  give  rise  to  the  custom  ;  but  it  has  been  supposed  by 
some  to  have  originated  from  an  observance  peculiar  to  carnival  time, 
which  occurred  about  this  very  period.  It  was  usual,  on  this  occa- 
sion, for  vast  numbers  of  knights  to  visit  the  different  Courts  of 
Europe,  where  they  entertained  the  ladies  with  pageantry  and  tour- 
naments. Each  lady,  at  these  magnificent  feasts,  selected  a  knight, 
who  engaged  to  serve  her  a  whole  year,  and  to  perform  whatever  she 
chose  to  command.  One  of  the  never-failing  consequences  of  this  en- 
gagement, was  an  injunction  to  employ  his  muse  in  the  celebration  of 
his  mistress. 

"  Menage,  in  his  Etymological  Dictionary,  has  accounted  for  the 
Valentine^  by  stating  that  Madame  Iloyale,  daughter  of  Henry  the 
Fourth  of  France,  having  built  a  palace  near  Turin,  which,  in  honour 
of  the  Saint,  then  in  high  esteem,  she  called  the  Valentine,  at  the  first 
entertainment  which  she  gave  in  it,  was  pkased  to  order  that  the 
ladies  should  receive  their  lovers  for  the  year  hy  lots,  reserving  to  her- 
self the  privilege  of  being  independent  of  chance,  and  of  choosing  her 
own  partner.  At  the  various  balls  which  this  gallant  Princess  gave, 
duping  the  year,  it  was  directed  that  each  lady  should  receive  a  nose- 
gay from  her  lover,  and  that,  at  every  tournament,  the  knight's  trap- 
pings for  his  horse  should  be  furnished  by  his  allotted  mistress,  with 
this  proviso,  that  the  prize  obtained  should  be  hers.  This  custom, 
g^iys  Menage,  occasioned  the  parties  to  be  called  Valentine. 

**  Mr.  Brand,  in  his  observations  on  Bourne's  Antiquities,  thinks,  that 
the  usages  of  this  day  are  the  remains  of  an  ancient  superstition  in  the 
Church  of  Rome,  of  choosing  joai/'o/is  for  the  year  ensuing,  at  this  sea- 
son ;  and  that,  because  ghosts  were  thought  to  walk  on  the  night  of 

*  Reed's  Sliak.spcare,  vol.  iv.  p.  -loS.     Mid!>unwter''5  yi^hCs  Dream,  act.  vi.  ac.  1. 


THE  INDICATOR.  149 

this  day,  or  about  this  time;"*  but  Mr.  Douce,  with  more  probabi- 
lity, considers  them  as  a  relic  of  paganism.  *'  It  was  the  practice  in 
ancient  Rome,"  he  observes,  "  during  a  great  part  of  the  month  of 
February,  to  celebrate  the  Ijupercalia,  which  were  feasts  in  honour  of 
Pan  and  Juno,  whence  the  latter  deity  was  named  februaiay  februalisy 
and  febndla.  On  this  occasion,  amidst  a  variety  of  ceremonies,  the 
names  of  young  women  were  put  into  a  box,  from  which  they  were 
drawn  by  the  men  as  chance  directed.  The  pastors  of  the  early  Chris- 
tian church,  wlio  by  every  possible  means  endeavoured  to  eradicate 
the  vestiges  of  Pagan  superstitions,  and  chiefly  by  some  commutatioa 
of  their  forms,  substituted,  in  the  present  instance,  the  names  of  parti- 
cular saints  instead  of  those  of  the  women  :  and  as  the  festival  of  the 
Lupercalia  had  commenced  about  the  middle  of  February,  they  appear 
to  have  chosen  Saint  Valentine's  day  for  celebrating  the  new  feast, 
because  it  occurred  nearly  at  the  same  time.  This  is,  in  part,  the 
opinion  of  a  learned  and  rational  compiler  of  ^e  lives  of  the  saints,  the 
Reverend  Alban  Butler.  It  should  seem,  however,  that  it  was  utterly- 
impossible  to  extirpate  altogether  any  ceremony  to  which  the  common 
people  had  been  much  accustomed  ;  a  fact  which  it  were  easy  to  prove 
in  tracing  the  origin  of  various  other  popular  superstitions;  and  ac- 
cordingly the  outline  of  the  ancient  ceremonies  was  preserved,  but 
modified  by  some  adaptation  to  the  Christian  system.  It  is  reason- 
able to  suppose  that  the  above  practice  of  choosing  mates  would  gra- 
dually become  reciprocal  in  the  sexes  ;  and  that  all  persons  so  chosen 
would  be  called  Valentines,  from  the  day  on  which  the  ceremony  took 
place."  + 

"  The  modes  of  ascertaining  the  VaJetitine  for  the  ensuing  year,  were 
nearly  the  same  in  Shakspeare's  age  as  at  the  present  period;  they 
consisted  either  in  drawing  lots  on  Valentine-eve,  or  in  considering 
the  first  person  whom  you  met  early  on  the  following  morning,  as  the 
destined  object.  In  the  former  case  the  names  of  a  certain  number  of 
one  sex,  were,  by  an  equal  number  of  the  other,  put  into  a  vase;  and 
then  every  one  drew  a  name;  which  for  the  time  was  termed  their 
Valentine^  and  was  considered  as  prr-dictive  of  their  future  fortune  in 
the  nuptial  state  ;  in  the  second  there  was  usually  some  little  con- 
trivance adopted,  in  order  that  the  favoured  object,  when  such  existed, 
might  be  the  first  seen.  To  this  custom,  Shakspeare  refers,  when  lie 
represents  Ophelia^jn  her  distraction,  singing, 

"  Good  morrow,  'tis  Saint  Valentine's  day, 

All  in  the  mornini;  beiime,   • 
And  I  a  maid  at  your  wiiuiow, 

To  be  your  Valentine."  % 

*'  The  practice  of  addressing  verses,  and  sending  presents,  to  the 
person  chosen,  has  been  continued  from  the  days  of  James  I.,  in 
which  the  gifts  of  Valentines  have  been  noticed  by  Moresini,§  to 
modern  times;  and  we  may  add  a  trait,   not  now   observed,  perhaps, 

*   Bourne's  Antiquities  apud  Brand,  p.  253. 

+   Donee's  Illustrations  of  tiliakspeare,  vol.  ii.  p.  252,  253. 

X  Reed'>>  Sliaks])earc,  vol.  xviii.  p.  2S1. 

§  Morcaini,  Uepiav.  Relig,  160. 


J 50  THE  INDICATOn. 

on  the  authority  of  aiv  old  English  ballad,  in  which  the  lasses  are 
directed  to  pray  cross4egged  to  Saint  Valentine^  for  good  luck."  * 

We  have  consulted  Mr.  Brady's  Ciavis  Calendaria,  but  have  nothing 
to  add  to  these  opinions,  except  that  Valentine  is  said  to  have  been 
conspicuous  in  overthrowing  the  Pagan  customs  above-mentioned,  and 
that  he  suffered  martyrdom  in  company  with  a  family  whom  he  had 
converted,  by  restoring  one  of  the  daughters  to  sight.  We  must  not 
omit  however  one  curious  passage.  Master  Valentine  is  not  only  the 
mysterious  personage  which  we  all  know  hitn  to  be,  but  some  would 
leave  us  to  conjecture  that  he  was  originally  kept  as  much  so  as 
possible  by  his  fellow-priests,  and  that  the  custom  which  takes  his 
name  may  have  been  subsequently  admitted  into  the  calendar  through 
the  ignorance  of  their  successors.  Some  authors  inform  us,  that  he 
renounced  his  creed,  adding,  that  instead  of  being  a  bishop,  he  did  so 
because  he  was  not  made  a  bishop.  This  may  be  a  sufficing  reason  to 
them;  but  in  Christian  charity,  a  less  mercenary  reason  might  have 
been  found.  Ileliodorus,  the  author  of  the  Greek  romance  called  the 
CEthiopics,  renounced  his  bishoprick,  because  he  was  told  that  he  must 
rither.  give  up  that  or  his  book.  A  paragraph  of  Mr.  Brady's  (Ciavis 
Calendaria,  vol.  1.  p.  223.)  may  throw  some  light  on  this  secret;— 
*'  While  authors  in  general,"  he  tells  us,  "  accede  to  the  above  state- 
ment, some  are  of  opinion,  that  Valentine,  who,  as  before  observed, 
abjured  his  religion  because  he  was  not  elected  bishop,  used  to  call 
together  the  male  proselytes  to  his  new  and  heretical  doctrines  on  the 
I4(:h  of  February,  when  each  chose  a  female  to  instruct  in  religion,  and 
even"  (quoth  Mr.  Brady,  with  his  edifying  Italics)  "  in  icorldly  affairs,. 
during  the  year,  and  from  thence  deduce  our  present  innocent  custom." 
Perhaps,  when  we  consider  the  nature  of  Valentines,  these  heretical 
doctrines  bore  some  resemblance  to  those  of  Friar  Dolcino  and  his 
mistress?  Margarita,  who  at  the  beginning  of  the  12th  century  were 
burnt  in  Italy  for  construing  the  Christian  system  into  something  very 
different  from  the  reigning  opinions. 


Hail  to  thy  returning  festival,  old  Bishop  Valenttne!  ^reat  is 
thy  name  in  the  rubric,  thou  venerable  Arch-flamen  of  Hymen !  Im- 
mortal Go-between  !  who  and  what  manner  of  person  art  thou  ?  art 
thou  but  a  ?iaj7ie,  typifying  the  restless  principle  which  impels  poor 
humans  to  seek  perfection  in  union  ?  or  Avert  thou  indeed  a  mortal 
prelate,  with  thy  tippet  and  thy  rochet,  thy  apron  on,  and  decent 
lawn  sieves  ?  Mysterious  personage  1  like  unto  thee,  assuredly,  there 
is  no  other  mitred  father  in  the  calendar;  not  Jerome,  or  Ambrose, 
nor  Cyril;  nor  the  consigner  of  undipt  infants  to  eternal  torments, 
Austin,  whom  ail  mothers  hate  :  nor  he  who  hated  all  mothers, 
Origen  ;  nor  Bishop  Bull,  nor  Archbishop  Parker,  nor  Whitgift. 
Thou  comest  attended  with  thousands  and  ten  thousands  of  little 
Loves,  and  the  air  is 

Biusli'd  with  tl)e  liiss  of  rustlin'r  wings. 

*  Dauce's  IllustraUoiis  of  Sliak'^peare,  vol.  ii.  p.  258. 


THE  INDICATOR.  151 

Singing  Cupids  are  thy  choristers  end  thy  precentors;  and  Instead  of 
the  crosier,  the  mystical  arrow  is  borne  before  thee. 

In  other  words,  this  is  the  day  on  which  those  charming  little  mist 
sives,  ycleped  Valentines,  cross  and  intercross  each  other  at  every 
street  and  turning.  The  weary  and  all  for-spent  twopenny  postman 
sinks  beneath  a  load  of  delicate  eraharrassments,  not  his  own.  It  is 
scarcely  credible  to  what  an  extent  this  ephemeral  courtship  is  carried 
on  in  this  loving  town,  to  the  great  enrichment  of  porters,  and  detri- 
ment of  knockers  and  bell-wires.  In  these  little  visual  interpreta- 
tions, no  emblem  is  so  common  as  the  heart,— that  little  three-cor- 
nered exponent  of  all  our  hopes  and  fears, — the  bestuck  and  bleeding 
heart;  it  is  twisted  and  tortured  into  more  allegories  and  affectations 
than  an  opera  hat.  What  authority  we  have  in  history  or  mythology 
for  placing  the  head-quarters  and  metropolis  of  God  Cupid  in  this  ana- 
tomical seat  rather  than  iu  any  other,  is  not  very  clear  ;  but  we  have 
got  it,  and  it  will  serve  as  well  as  any  other  thing.  Else  we  might 
easily  imagine,  upon  some  other  system  which  might  have  prevailed 
for  any  thing  which  our  pathology  knows  to  the  contrary,  a  lover  ad- 
dressing his  mistress,  in  perfect  simplicity  of  feeling,  "  Madam,  my 
liver  and  fortune  are  entirely  at  your  disposal ;"  or  putting  a  delicate 
question,  "  Amanda,  have  you  a  midriff  to  bestow  ?"  But  custom  has 
settled  these  things,  and  awarded  the  seat  of  sentiment  to  the  afore- 
said triangle,  while  its  less  fortunate  neighbours  wait  at  animal  and 
anatomical  distance. 

Not  many  sounds  in  life,  and  I  include  all  urban  and  all  rural 
sounds,  exceed  in  interest  a  knock  at  (lie  door.  It  "  gives  a  very  echo 
to  the  throne  where  Hope  is  seated."  But  its  issues  seldom. answer  to 
this  oracle  within.  It  is  so  seldom  that  just  the  person  we  want  to  see 
comes.  But  of  all  the  clamorous  visitations  the  welcomest  in  expecta- 
tion is  the  sound  that  ushers  in,  or  seems  to  usher  in,  a  Valentine.  As 
the  raven  himself  was  hoarse,  that  announced  the  fatal  entrance  of 
Duncan,  so  the  knock  of  the  postman  on  this  day  is  light,  airy,  confi- 
dent, and  befitting  one  that  "  bringeth  good  tidings."  It  is  less  me- 
chanical than  on  other  days;  you  will  say,  "  That  is  not  the  Post,  I 
au#sure.''  Visions  of  Love,  of  Cupids,  of  Hymens,  and  all  those  de-* 
lightful  eternal  common-places,  which  "  having  been  will  always  be  ;'* 
which  no  school-boy  nor  school-man  can  write  away;  having  their 
irreversible  throne  in  the  fancy  and  affections ;  what  are  your  trans- 
ports, Avhen  the  happy  maiden,  opening  with  careful  finger,  careful  not 
to  break  the  emblematic  seal,  bursts  upon  the  sight  of  some  well-de- 
signed allegory,  some  type,  some  youthful  fancy,  not  without  verses- 
Lovers  all, 
A  madrigRl, 

or  some  such  device,  not  over  abundant  in  sense— young  Love  dis- 
claims it,— and  not  quite  silly — something  between  wind  and  water, 
a  chorus  where  the  sheep  might  almost  join  the  shepherd,  as  they  did, 
or  as  I  apprehend  they  did,  in  Arcadia. 

All  Valentines  are  not  foolish,  and  I  shall  not  easily  forget  thine, 
my  kind  friend  (if  I  may  have  leave  to  call  you  so)  E.  B. — E.  B.  lived 
opposite  a  young  maiden,  whom  he  had  often  seen,  unseen,  from  his 
parlour  window   in    C — e-street.     She  was  all  joyousness   and   inno- 


152  THE  INDICATOR. 

cfence,  9^^nd  just  of  an  age  to  enjoy  rrceiving  a  ValenllnPj  and  just  afti 
temper  to  bear  the  disappointinent  of  missing  one  with  good  humour. 
E.  B.  is  an  artist  of  no  common  powers  ;  in  the  fancy  parts  of  design- 
ing, perhaps  inferior  to  none ;  his  name  is  known  at  the  bottom  of 
many  a  well-executed  vignette  in  the  way  of  his  profession,  but  no 
further;  for  E.  B.  is  modfst,  and  the  world  meets  nobody  half-way. 
E.  B.  meditated  how  he  could  repay  this  young  maiden  for  many  a 
favour  which  she  had  done  him  unknown;  for,  when  a  kindly  face 
greets  us,  though  but  passing  by,  and  never  knows  us  «gain,  nor  we  it, 
we  should  feel  it  as  an  obligation  ;  and  E.  B.  did.  This  good  artist  Sf  t 
himself  at  work  to  please  the  damsel.  It  was  just  before  Valentine's 
day  three  years  since.  He  wrought  unseen  and  unsuspected  a  won- 
drous work.  We  need  not  say  it  was  on  the  finest  gilt  paper  with 
borders — full,  not  of  common  hearts  and  heartless  allegory,  but  all  the 
prettiest  stories  of  love  from  Ovid,  and  older  poets  than-iQvid  (for 
E-JB.  is  a  scholar).  There  was  Pyramus  andThisbe,  and  besure  Dido 
■was  not  forgot,  nor  Hero  and  Leander,  and  swans  more  than  sang  ia 
Cayster,  with  mottoes  and  fanciful  devices,  such  as  beseemed, — a 
■work  in  short  of  magic.  Iris  dipt  the  woof.  This  on  Valentine's  eve 
lie  commended  to  the  all-swallowing  indiscriminate  orifice — (O  ignoble 
trust!) — of  the  common  Post;  but  the  humble  medium  did  its  duty, 
and  from'  bis  -watchful  stand,  the  next  morning,  he  saw  the  cheerful 
messenger  knock,  and  by  and  by  the  precious  charge  delivered.  He 
saw,  unseen,  the  happy  girl  unfold  the  Valentine,  dance  about,  clap 
her  hands,  as  one  after  one  the  pretty  emblems  unfolded  themselves. 
She  danced  about,  not  with  light  love,  or  foolish  expectations,  for  she 
had  no  lover  ;  or,  if  she  had,  no<Te  she  knew  that  could  have  created 
those  bright  images  which  delighted  her.  it  was  more  like  some  fairy 
present:  a  God-send,  as  our  familiarly  pious  ancestors  termed  a  be- 
nefit received,  where  the  benefactor  was  unknown.  It  would  do  her 
no  harm.  It  would  do  her  good  for  ever  after.  It  is  good  to  love  the 
unknown.  1  only  give  this  as  a  specimen  of  E.  B.  and  his  modest  way 
of  doing  a  concealed  kindness. 

Good-morrow  to  my  Valentine,  sings  poor  Ophelia  ;  and  no  better 
wish,  but  with  better  auspices,  we  wish  to  all  faithful  lovers,  who  are 
not  too  wise  to  despise  old  legends,  but  are  content  to  rank  themselves 
humble  diocesans  with  old  Bishop  Valentine,  and  his  true  church. 

**** 


TO   CORRESPONDENTS. 

The  communications  of  T.  W.  K.  did  not  rench  us  till  too  late  in  season  ;  but  we 
trust  we  shall  be  able  to  use  them  suitably  still. 

A.  A.'s  letter  the  first  opportufiity.  Her  request  is  rather  alarmiiip;  bnl  it  is  a 
lady's,  and  the  Editor  will  do  his  best  to  comply  wiiji  it;  so,  at  least,  as  to  b^ 
nnderstood  by  a  spirit  like  Iiers. 

•'  Friend  R.  N."  need  not  be  afraid  of  beinp  obliged  to  become  hostile  to  x\9.  It 
is  not  ill  his  nature  to  be  so,  vie  huspect,  if  he  would  ;  and  we  shall  not  give  him 
occasion. 


Printed  and  pubVislK'd  by  Josk.ph  AvPLtLYAUD,  No.  19,  Cnilierine-streef,  Strand. 
Price  9d. — Ask!  sold  also  tiy  A,  (Juddox,  Importer  of  SniifFs,  No.  31,  Tuvistock- 
street,  Covent-<;arden.  Orders  received  at  the  above  places,  and  by  all  Uook- 
sellersaiid  Nevvsmetu 


THE    INDICATOR. 


There  hearriring  round  abont  dotli  flie. 
And  takes  survey  with  biisie  curious  eye: 
Now  this,  now  that,  he  tastelh  tenderly. 

SPBNSKR. 


NoiLXXII.— WEDNESDAY,  FEBRUARY  21  st,  1821 


THE  JAPANESE  WIDOW  AND  HER  SONS. 

My  deau  Sir, — If  you  should  consider  the  extract  which  I  enclose 
as  deserving  a  place  in  your  paper,  I  shall  think  myself  fortunate  to' 
have  been  the  means,  in  the  present  weak,  state  of  your  health,  of 
sparing  you  a  few  minutes  exertion.  Hoping  that  without  pain  or 
injury  to  yourself,  you  will  soon  be  enabled  to  resume  your  literary- 
labours,  I  subscribe  myself,  with  the  most  sincere  respect  and  esteem, 

A  CoM-sTANT  Reader. 

A  woman  was  left  a  widow  with  three  sons,  and  with  no  other  sub- 
sistence than  their  labour.  The  young  men  not  having  been  brought 
up  to  this  kind  of  life,  could  scarcely  earn  the  most  common  necessaries 
of  life,  and  bitterly  lis^ented  their  inability  to  place  their  mother  in  a 
more  comfortable  situation.  It  had  been  lately  decreed,  that  any  per- 
son who  should  seize  a  robber,  and  convey  him  to  a  magistrate,  should 
receive  a  considerable  reward.  The  three  brothers,  who  were  a  thou- 
sand times  more  affected  with  their  mother's  poverty  than  their  own, 
took  a  resolution  as  strange  as  heroic.  They  agreed  that  one  of  the 
three  should  pass  for  a  robber,  and  that  the  other  two  should  denounce 
him  as  such :  they  drew  lots  to  determine  which  was  to  be  the  victim. 
of  filial  love,  and  it  fell  to  the  youngest,  who  was  bound,  and  con- 
ducted before  the  magistrate  as  a  criminal.  He  was  questioned, 
confessed  the  robbery  of  which  he  was  accused,  was  sent  to  prison, 
and  the  two  brothers  received  the  reward;  but  before  they  returned 
home,  they  found  means  to  enter  the  prison,  wishing  at  least  to  bid  an 
affectionate  adieu  fo  their  unfortunate  brother.  There,  believing 
themselves  unobsferved,  they  threw  themselves  into  the  arms  of  the 
prisoner,  and  by  their  tears,  their  sobs,  and  the  most  tender  embraces, 

Vol.  rr. 


.154  THE  INDICATOR. 

fllsplayed  the  excess  of  their  affection  and  grief.  The  magistrats, 
who  by  chance  was  in  a  place  from  whence  he  could  perceive  them, 
was  extremely  surprised  to  see  a  criminal  receive  such  marks  of  affec- 
tion from  the  yery  men  who  had  delivered  him  up  to  justice  ;  he  gave 
orders  to  one  of  his  people  to  follow  the  two  young  men,  and  observe 
them  narrowly.  The  servant  obeyed,  and  reported  to  his;  master  that 
lie  had  followed  the  two  young  men  to  the  door  of  their  mother's 
apartment;  that  on  entering,  their  first  care  was  to  give  their  mother 
the  sum  of  money  which  they  had  received ;  that  she,  astonished  at 
the  sight  of  so  considerable  a  sum,  had  shewn  more  uneasiness  than 
pleasure  at  it,  and  had  eagerly  questioned  them  as  to  how  they 
obtained  it,  and  the  caVise  of  their  brother's  absence  ;  that  for  ji 
time  the  two  youths  could  answer  only  by  their  tears,  but  that  at  last, 
threatened  with  the  malediction  of  a  mother  so  tenderly  beloved,  they 
had  confessed  the  truth.  At  this  dreadful  recital  the  unfortunate 
woman,  pienetrated  with  gratitude,  terror,  and  admiration,  and  aban- 
doning herself  to  th^  most  violent  transports  of  despair,  sprung  to- 
wards the  door  to  go  out,  with  the  intention  of  declaring  every  thing 
to  the  magistrate ;  but  that  restrained  by  her  cruelly  generous  sons, 
overwhelming  them  with  reproaches  and  bathing  them  with  tears,  over- 
powered at  once  by  anger,  and  by  the  most  passionate  grief  and  tender- 
ness, she  had  fallen  senseless  in  their  arms. 

After  this  recital  the  judge  repaired  to  the  prison,  and  questioned 
the  younger  brother,  who  still  persisted  in  his  account,  and  nothing  could.  ■ 
induce  him  to  retract.     The  magistrate  at  last  told  him,  that  he  had'C 
wished  to  know  to  what  excess  of  heroism  filial  piety  could  raise  a  vir-^ 
tuous  heart,  and  declared  to  him  that  he  was  informed  of  the  truth.-l 
The  judge  went  to  report  this  adventure  to  the  sovereign,  who,  struck  ; 
with  an  action  so  heroic,  desired  to  see  the  three  brothers,  and  the 
happy  mother  of  such  virtuous  children  :  he  loaded  them  with  praises 
and  marks  of  distinction,  assigned  to  the  youngest  1500  crowns  a  year, 
and  500  each  to  the  other  two. — (Histoire  du  Japan^  par  le  P.  CharJe' 
voi.v.) 


OLD  MAIDS.  'I 

We  must  apologize  to  the  writer  of  the  following  letter  for  not 
having  taken  earlier  notice  of  it.  We  had  hoped  that  we  should 
speedily  be  able  to  introduce  it  with  a  longer  preface  than  our  slow 
recovery  will  allow  us  to  give;  but  it  need  not  wait  for  an  introduc- 
tion ;  nor  would  this  work  be  exactly  the  place  for  it.  The  authoress  (for 
■unfortunately,  the  prejudices  of  which  she  speaks  compel  us  to  suppose , 
the  writer  of  the  female  sex)  is  evidently  too  well  aware  of  all  the 
ordinary  points  of  the  question,  perhaps  more  ;  and  to  enter  on  others,, , 
upon  which  the  main  one  turns,  would  involve  a  consideration  of  alt" 


TItlJ;  INDICATOR.  1^5 

lli'oSe  selfish  outrages  done  to  the  female  sex,  whether  in  dootning  them 
to  a  life  of  celibacy  or  the  other  extreme,  which  require  great  nicety 
and  preparation  even  in  touching.  So  much  sorer  even  than  the  mis- 
fortunes it  creates,  is  false  virtue  sure  to  be,  however  it  has  bulled 
Itself  up  into  the  place  of  true.  One  of  the  objects  for  which  we  hope 
to  live  and  to  have  strength,  is  to  endeavour,  in  a  work  by  itself,  to 
call  the  attention  of  society  to  the  great  question  of  sexual  intercourse 
in  general, — we  mean,  to  the  actual  amount  of  its  happiness  or  misery, 
as  gatherable  from  record  and  observation,  to  tlie  prejudices  which 
pollute  it,  and  the  principles  on  which,  in  our  opinion,  it  ought  to  be 
regulated, 

,  Mr.  Indicatou, — To  you  I  apply  as  to  a  person  of  known  huma- 
iiity,  to  take  up  your  pen  in  a  cause  which  would  do  you  no  dishonour, 
and  which  I  do  not  fear  that  you  should  disdain  j  the  defence  of  Old 
Maids. 

Old  Maid  is,  I  am  sorry  to  say  it,  commonly  used  as  a  term  of  re- 
proach :  an  Old  Maid  is  an  object  of  general  ridicule;  and  is  there 
not  injustice  and  eveii  cruelty  in  this  ?  Do  people  speak  of  curiosity, 
of  prudery,  of  scandal,  or  of  ill-temper,  they  speak  of  them  as  the 
common  attributes  of  an  Old  Maid.  From  my  own  experience  I  have 
not  found  that  these  ill  qualitii'S  are  more  common  to  Old  Maids  then 
to  others;  nay,  one  of  the  most  amiable  women  whom  I  know  is  an 
Old  Maid;  and  the  most  prying,  scandal-loving,  and  ill-tempered 
womau  that  I  know,  or  ever  did  know,  has  been  twice  married. 

An  Old  Maid  may  have  a  kind  and  atfectionate  heart,  she  might 
have  been  an  excellent  wife  and  a  tender  mother,  probably  she  may 
liave  survived  her  parents  ;  her  brotiiers  and  sisters  may  have  married 
and  disi>ersed  about  the  world,  and  she  be  left  alone ;  she  has  no 
power  to  make  one  human  being  happy,  no  one  studies  to  make  her 
happy.  There  is  no  one  to  whom  she  is  the  nearest  and  dearest;  none 
take  an  interest  in  her  pursuits  ;  no  one  desires  that  she  should  take 
an  interest  in  theirs:  her  heart  is  like  the  dove  which  Noah  sent  forth, 
from  the  ark  ;  it  is.  lone  and  weary,  and  can  find  no  place  of  rest. 
.,  Sliie  sees  a  mother  sm.ile  upon  the  ebild  she  presses  to  her  bosom  ; 
;fnd  she  at  the  happy  sight  smiles  too,  but  she  smiles  sadly,  for  she  has 
no  dear  child  to  press  to. /ler  bosom.  She  .sees  the  young  mother  pre- 
s&ut  her  new-born  babe  to  the  husband  whom^he  loves,  she  smiles  at 
their  happiness,  but  .oh  how  her  heart  sickens.!  she  too  has  loved, 
loved  deeply ;  he  whom  she  loved  is  lost  to  her  for  ever :  in  that 
moment  the  sweetest  dreams  of  early  hope  strike  upon  her  heart,  they 
never  can  be  realized,;  the  tears  are  in  her  eyes,  she  stoops  to  kiss  the 
child  and  so  she  hides  them  ;  she  would  not  obtrude  her  sorrows  upou 
the  happiness  of  such  a  moment.  Great  God!  must  the  privation  of 
domestic  happiness  be  yet  further  embittered  by  prejudices?  Must 
unkindncss  and  scorn  be  heaped  on  her  who  has  none  to  soothe  her? 
How  many  unhappy  unions  have  been  formed  from  a  fear  of  encounter- 
ing the  mortifications  attendant  on  a  single  life  !  1  have  not  found  that 
the  faults  attributed  to  Old  Maids  are  at  all  more  common  to  them  than 


156  THE  INDICATOR. 

to  others;  bat  were  it  so,  we  might  believe  that  the  stigma  which  rests 
upon  them  may  tend  to  injure  the  temper  ;  and  we  might  consider  too» 
that  they  have  not  that  strong  incentive  to  the  correction  of  natural 
foibles,  which  may  influence  happier  women.  Singleness  of  life  in 
women  should  be  respected  as  misfortune,  for  it  is  scarcely  ever  the 
effect  of  a,  free  choice  ;  it  is  almost  always  occasioned  either  by  pecu- 
niary difficulties,  by  an  unfortunate  attachment,  or  by  such  deficiency 
of  personal  attractions,  as  leaves  it  not  to  their  choice  at  all. 

You,  Mr.  Indicator,  whose  admiration  of  feminine  beauty  is  yet  sur- 
passed by  your  love  of  human  kindness,  will  not,  I  am  convinced^ 
refuse  to  consider  a  subject  in  which  so  large  a  portion  of  the  female 
world  are  interested.  I  have  but  faintly  hin<ed  at  the  mortifications 
to  which  an  Old  Maid  is  exposed  ;  but  could  I  have  found  heart  to  do 
it,  I  could  have  related  a  history  which  would  draw  tears  from  sterner 
eyes  than  yours,  and  excite  feelings  of  sympathy  even  for 

An  Old  Maid. 


MRS.  B. 

■  Mr.  Inpicatou, — t  am  in  a  situation  of  unspeakable  misery.  You 
will  perhaps  believe  that  I  am  in  some  pecuniary  distress,  or  that  by 
death  Of  by  absence  I  have  lost  a  beloved  friend,  or  that  I  have  been 
crossed  in  love  :  I  have  experienced  some  of  these  troubles,  but  it  is 
not  of  these  that  I  mean  to  complain  to  you. 

Poverty  I  have  never  known  ;  I  lost  my  mother  before  1  was  old 
enough  to  feel  the  loss.  It  is  true  I  suffered  mnch  in  parting  with  my 
father,  who  left  England  a. few  years  since  for  Jamaica,  where  he  now 
resides.  As  to  being  crossed  in  love,  I  have  only  myself  to  blame  for 
that,  for  my  father  positively  forbade  me,  under  pain  of  his  severe  dis- 
pleasure, ever  to  fall  in  love  without  his  permission  ;  but  the  misery  I 
now  endure,  Mr.  Indicator,  I  did  not  bring  upon  myself.  It  rs  my 
tnisforKineto  live  in  a  country  town.  To  you,  Sir,  1  know  it  will  appear 
the  vilest  heresy  to  say  this  ;  but  have  patience  with  me. 

When  my  father  left  England,^  he  placed  me  under  the  care  of  a 
widow  lady,  who,  for  my  misfortune,  has  the  reputation  oC  being  (he 
most  prudent  jof  women.  She  is  shocked  beyond  measure  at  what  she 
calls  my  vicious  propensities  ;  and  yet,  Mr.  Indicator,  1  am  sure  yotr, 
for  whom  I  have  the  highest  possible  respect,  would  not  object  to  any 
one  of  them.--I  would  have  your  candid  opinion  now. 

I  delight  in  Shakspeare  ;-r--I  can  only  road  him  by  stea!tH  or  opeh 
defiance  (both  very  disagreeable  to  me),  because  Mrs.  B.  maintains 
that  he  is  a  very  immoral  author,  whom  no  modest  young  woman 
would  find  pleasure  in.  She  is  indeed  so  careful  of  my  morals,  that 
she  will  not  allow  me  to  read  any  book,  without  first  looking  over  it 
berself ;  and  if  she  finds  any  thing  improper  in  it,  she  is  not  contented 


THE  INDICATOn.  157 

m'ith  merely  looking  it  over,  but  sd  fearful  is  she  of  doing  the  author 
an  injustice,  that  she  reads  it  quite  through  before  she  prenouilces 
sentence  against  it,  and  in  that  case  I  see  it  x\6  more. 
-  I  take  great  pleasure  in  tamWing  in  the  fields  and  green  lanes  in  th* 
neighbourhood,  where  I  have  i-areiy  met  any  person  but  a  wood* 
cutter,  a  farmer,  or  some  country  labourer ;  but  these  rambles  are 
forbidden  me,  because  Mrs.  B.  insists  that  I  take  them  for  no  other 
purpose  than  to  meet  "  a  certain  person,"  as  she  denominates  him 
whom  she  knows  I  should  be  most  willing  to  meet,  but  that,  alas',  he 
is  many  miles  from  hence. 

I  have  been  taught  music  by  an  excellent  master,  and  I  have  an 
absolute  pasision  for  this  art ;  but  I  am  hot  allowed  to  play  or  sing  any 
thing  but  sacred  music,  because  Mrs.  B.  says  all  profane  music  giyes 
girls  improper  notions. 

I  have  been  taught  French  and  Italian ;  but  I  am  not  allowed  to 
read  any  book  in  either  of  these  languages,  because  Mrs.  B.  who  doe's 
iiot  understand  them,  fears  they  might  contain  something  improper. 

Drawing,  unfortunately  I  do  not  understand.  There  is  a  draWiiV^- 
master  in  the  town  ;  but  as  with  the  exceptions  of  an  ill-natured  coun- 
tenance and  vulgar  manners,  he  is  a  "  very  comely  man,  and  is  hat 
more  than  fifty,"  Mrs.  B.  thinks  it  would  be  improper  that  I  sbbiil'U 
receive  lessons  from  him. 

The  only  occupation  she  allows  me  to  pursue  without  interrnpUoni  is 
needle-work,  and  for  this  I  have  an  unconquerable  aversion.  I  would 
ask  you,  Mr.  Indicator,  if  forbidding  me  in  this  mariner  all  occupation 
of  mind  would  be  likely  to  destroy  any  vicious  propensities?  I.  would 
likewise  ask  you,  Sir,  if  you  consider  aS  such  the  love  of  Shakspeare, 
of  the  fields,  of  music,  and  of  books?  I  hope  I  shall  ever  preserve, 
and  one  day  be  able  to  gratify  these  propensities  j  yet  if  you  condemn 
them,  I  will  instantly  sacrifice  them  all. 

Having  told  you,  Sir,  what  is  forbidden  me  as  rmproper,  I  will  now 
add  what  is  enjoined  me  as  proper ;  needle-work  as  an  occupation^ 
aind  Uie  society  of  female  neighbours  as  a  relaxation.  Now,  to  my 
vicious  taste  nothing  can  be  more  nnpleasaut,  or  at  the  best  insipid, 
than  a  comj)any  of  females  only,  iuid  those  uneducated  females,  in  a 
country  town.  I  do  not  mean  tlr.it  a  person  may  not  be  very  amiffble, 
Mithout  b«ing  what  is  called  well  educated;  but  the  persons  I  meatl 
are  very  illiterate  people,  who  mix  in  very  illiterate  society,  and  W:bo 
are  so  wrapped  up  in  ignorance  and  prejudice,  that  wliile  they  admire 
eKcellence  wkbout  knowing  it,  they  hate  it  because  they  cannot  attain 
it.  With  such  people  my  eveinngs  are  passed  ;  it  is  upon  such  people 
that  I  am  to  depend  for  amusement  and  for  improvement.  A^;to  your 
papers,  Sir,  I  can  only  read  them  by  stealth,  for  you  are  particularly 
odious  to  Mrs.  B. — I  am,,  )siry  a  respectful  admirer,  ;  .,,  F.  Nk 

We  return  our  best  thanks  to  oui"  fair  CorrespcJndeAt  fbi*  her  t^^td^ 
and  even  to  Mrs.  B.  for  her  dislike ;  only  we  wish  for  the  latt'er'S  own  sake, 
as  well  as  her  companion's,  that  she  would  look  upon  us  withaneye  of 
greater  humanity.     If  Mrs.  B.  were  to  ex-j^lode  such  things  xs  "  Shak- 


158  niE  INDICATOR. 

speare,  the  field's,  and  music,  and  books,''  slie  might  as  well  explode 
IVatuire  at  ^nee  ;  which  indeed,  we  are  surprised,  that  some  of  these 
old  ladies,  female-or  male,  do  not  propose  to  do.  •  But  as  long  as  our 
fair  correspoiident  understands  these,  and  has  one  person  that  under- 
stands her,  she  may . endure  Mrs.  B.  C.  and  D.  into  tfaeJtoFgain.'  '.        ' 

,  :  --:!  i'u..    ..-,.  ;,r  ...  .    •'-•    ^:      ^    ',   ■=     ■■ 


vjii?  t!rii«  rt^ETTEft  ifROM  A  DlsriNCUlSHED  PERSONAGE.  „i(i 

Tiie  following  "letter  from  a  personage'  lb  ivhbm- We  pwe^jeat 
obligations,  is  inserted  with  the  becoming  gratitude  of  a  sick  a  nth  oK—- 
rhe  secretary  who  held  the  pen  for  him  (his  Serenity  not  being  in  the 
liabit  of  writing,  or  even  of  talking  but  by  hints)  is,  we  understand, 
a  youth  of  nineteen.  It  is  not  among  the  least  or  pleasanlest  evidences 
of  the  extraordinary  growth  of  literature,  to  see  young  gentlemen  of 
this  time  of  life  expressing  their  thoughts  and  turning  their  round  ivory 
sentences,  with  a  look  of  ease,  perhaps  with  the  ease  itself,  that  shews 
how  intimately  they  must  have  handled  some  of  our  most  classical 
WriterSi  To  put  our  gratitude  in  proper  official  style,  we  beg  leave  to 
return  our  best  acknowledgment  to  his  Serenity  for  this  as  well  as  all 
the  other  assistance  he  has  been  pleased  to  afford  "  our  wearied 
yirtue,"  (not  the  least  virtuous,  as  the  infant  proverb  insinuates,  when 
under  his  care)  and  to  his  amanuensis  Mr.  I.  W.  for  the  very  hand- 
Jiome  manner  in  which  the  letter  was  convej'ed  to  us. 

Mr.  iNDicJiTORy— *•!  date  my  existence  from  that  memorable  aera 
when  the  happiness  of  our  first  parent  was  soon  to  be  completed  by 
the  society  of  that  fair  helpmate,  who  was  the  secondary  cause  of  per- 
fecting his  short-lived  bliss  and  subsequent  disobedience.  It  was  1  whot 
held  him  in  a  soft  captivity  while  the  partner  of  his  future  joys  and 
sorrows  was  formed,  and  then  released  him  to  admire  and  love  the 
most  finished  of  his  Creator's  works.  :  .    ■     -  r 

-  Having.thus  established  my  authority  over  the  firs6  pa**etft-  of^imD-t 
hind,  i  have  uniformly  tnaiutained  it  through  all  succeeding  ages  ;  and 
such  is  the  extent  of  my  power,  that  not  only  man,  but  every  inferior 
class  of  aiHmated  being,  willitigly  bend  beneath  it.  • 
'•'  The  greatest  heroes  of  ancient  and  modern  times-^-^en  whom  per.* 
jguasion  could  not  influence,  nor  force  terrify— whose  ambitious  views, 
and  active  spirit,  "strong  walls  of  brass  nor  bolts  of  adamant,''  in- 
hospitable deserts,  nor  unnavigable  oceans  could  bomul — solicit  my 
fetters,  and  most  willingly  resign  themselves  to  my  authority.  Noii» 
am  I  l^ss  the  desire  of  the  peasant,  for  under  my  mild  government-he 
finds  that  comfort  and  repose  which  inspires  him  with  new  alacrity  and 
vigour.  I  free  him  from  the  sensibility  of  his  sorrows,  take  off  the 
burthen  of  his  cares,  uud  open  to  his  view  new  prospcctb  of  hap- 
piutsb. 


THE  INDICATOR.  159 

I  frequently  entertain  my  subjects  with  scenes  which,  without  my 
assistance,  lie  beyond  the  limits  of  their  faculties  to  contemplate.  I 
recal  to  memory  transactions  and  events  in  which  they  most  delighted  ; 
realize  the  past ;  anticipate  the  future  ;  and  by  a  species  of  magic,  in- 
comprehensible to  the  mind,  transport  it  "  beyond  the  visible  diurnal 
sphere."  I  bring  distant  and  even  departed  friends  to  their  view,  and 
renew  ideas  of  the  long  dissolved  bonds  of  endearing  friendship.  While 
under  my  immediate  care,,  the  distinctions  of  rank,  fortune,  ruler,  and 
servant,  are  suspended  ; — the  high  and  the  low,  the  learned  and  the 
illiterate,  are  equally  happy. 

But  although  the  means  not  only  of  banishing  pain  and  sorrow,  but 
of  increasing  human  happiness,  yet  I  am  frequently  abused,  and  then 
1  become  productive  of  much  inconvenience.  By  intemperate  indul- 
gence I  become  detrimental  to  the  interests  of  society,  and  have  oftea 
betrayed  not  only  individuals,  but  armies,  cities,  and  Jtingdoms,  into 
ruin  and  destruction. 

Until  luxury  had  enervated  the  power  of  man,  such  was  my  modesty, 
that  I  was  seldom  seen  in  the  face  of  day.  But  in  this  debilitated  age, 
members  (and  ladies  of  fashion  in  particular)  most  willingly  submit  to 
wear  my  chains,  till  the  siin  blushes  at  their  insensibility  from  heaven, 

I  delight  most  in  silence,  solitude,  and  darkness,  and  rarely  appear 
in  a  crowd,  unless  at  church. 

At  card-tables,  tea-tables,  and  places  of  public  diversion,  I  nerer 
presume  to  shew  myself,  knowing  right  well  that  no  one.  would  submit 
to  my  authority.  .  i 

In  circles  where  private  scandal  is  the  amusement,  I  am  never  ad- 
mitted, because  my  presence  would  flatten  the  zest  of  defamation.  Of 
both  sexes,  the  majority  n.ay,  however,  declare  with  truth,  that  the 
hours  they  spend  in  my  service  are  the  most  innocent,  and  frequently 
stronger  than  that  of  reason :  I  often  stop  their  career,  and  by  degrees 
restore  them  to  their  senses. 

But  although  my  authority  extends  over  all  sensible  beings,  I  am 
accused  of  being  partial  to  those  who  are  least  acquainted  with  afflic- 
tion. I  admit  the  charge,  and  can  only  plead  that  my  conduct  results 
from  necessity.  I  have  a  secret  but  unconquerable  aversion  to  scenes 
of  woe  and  the  bustles  of  human  cares. 

The  man  of  sorrow,  whom  sickness,  misfortunes,  or  adversity  cause 
to  water  his  couch  with  tears,  frequently  awaits  my  mandate  with  un- 
availing solicitude.  In  the  acutest  paroxysms  of  human  misery,  I  am, 
however,  the  best  restorer  of  quietude  and  peace. 
.  I  lave  been  terrried,  and  not  improperly,  the  representative  of  a: 
conqueror  more  potent  than  myself;  and  I  might  add  much  on  the  si- 
milarity of  our  power  and  influence. 

But  with  all  these  qualifications,  I  fear  it  "will  never  be  in  my  power 
to  persuade  the  vicious,  the  dissolute,  and  the  circulators  of  private 
scandal,  to  lay  aside  their  beloved  employments,  and  sJnk  for  happiness 
into  the  embraces  of 

I.  W.  ^f.EEP. 


k<i(y  THE  INDICATOR. 


MUSIC. 

'   •  JASong-  in  commendation  of  U^  hy  WitUAM  Strode.    [  Died  I644.J 
?,<:;V?^;f-;         '■,,... 

Wheivwhispering  strains  do  softly  steal 

With  creeping  pas^eion  through  the  heart. 
And  when  at  every  touch  we  feet 
Our  pulses  beat  and  bear  9  part ; 
When  threads  can  make 
A  heart-string  quake  ; 
Philosophy 
?  Can  scarce  deny 

The  soul  consists  of  harmony. 

O  lull  me,  lull  me,  charming  air. 

My  senses  rock'd  with  wonder  sweet! 
Like  iinpw  on  wool  thy  fallings  are, — 
Soft  like  a  spirit  are  thy  feet. 
Grief  who  need  fear. 
That  hath  an  ear  ? 
Down  let  him  lie. 
And  slumbering  die, 
J^nd  change  his  soul  for  hi^rH)ony. 


FAST  AFEECTION. 

JFrom  fVtLnr's  Second  Set  of  Madrigals.     1609.. 

LoVe  me  not  for  comefy  grace. 
For  my  pleasing  eye  or- face. 
Nor  for  any  pmwanl  part. 
No,  i\pr  for  my. constant  heart ; 
For  those  may  fail,  or  tu^n  to  ill. 

So  thou  and  Ishall  sever; 
Keep  therefore  a  true  woman's  eye. 
And  lpv«  me  still,  but  know  not  why» 
So  hast  thou  the  same  reason  still 

To  dpat  upon  me  ever. 


Bviniedand  publislyed' by  Joseph  Appletard,  No.  19,  Catherine-street,  Strand. 
. Price 2d-r—.Afid,«o,ld  also  by  A.  Gliddon,  Importer  of  Snuffs,  No.31,  Tavistock-" 
street,  Covent-garden.    Orders  received  at  the  above  places,  and  by  all  Book* 
sellers  and  Newsmen* 


mf 


■'f'H^E  "  11^15 TdA TOR: 


There  he  arriving  round  about  doth  flie,  • 
And  takes  sutvey  vitU  biltie  curious  eye : 
Now  this,  now  thitt,'he  tasteth  tenderly. 

Spenskr. 


No.  LXXIIL— WEDNESDAY,   FEBRUARY  28th,  1821, 


A  NEW  POCKET  EDITION  OF  HORACE. 

The  other  day  a  friend  brought  us  a  little  Horace,  which  has  just 
'corrte  out,  and  which  appears  to  us  to  be  very  much  to  the  purpose. 
tit  was  very  much  to  ours.  Nothing  does  us  so  much  good  as  ple-asant 
; companionship,  and  here  it  was,  ancient  ami  modern.  Our  friend  is  a 
'man  of  wit  and  scholarship,  who  spetlds  his  leisure  hours  in  the 
ancient  world  ; — he  gave  it  us  on  a  fine  day  in  a  plot  of  Horatiaii 
evergreeps,  inter  virides  arhutos  ;  and  the  next  day,  we  read  an  ode  of 
'it  in  good  classical  style,  in  a  warm  bath. 

This  new  pocket  Horace  is  the  neatest  little  plenitude  we  hdve'Seefci 
a  long  time.  It  contains  the  Satires  and  Epistles  as  well  as  Odes,  and 
yet  may  be  almost  concealed  m  the  hand  that  carries  it.  The  type 
also,  though  very  small,  is  exceedingly  clear.  The  Odes  are  headed 
cither  tVith  the  general'  subject  or  the  names  of  the  persons  to  whom, 
"they  fkre  addressed,  instead  of  being  merely  numbered  8,  9,  and  10, 
which  is  a  dry,  uninforming  practice  much  to  our  distaste.  There  is 
also  a  portrait  of  Horace  at  the  beginning,  which  if  not  in  the  best  style 
'of  the  art,  is  not  slovenly  or  unfitting;  and  this  also  we  like.  la 
short,  the  book  is  worthy  of  the  author,  whom  Augustus  called  homuRm 
cionem  lepidissimum, — the  most  entertaining  of  raannikins. 

The  portrait  prefixed  to  this  work,  and  another  significant  one 
enough,  as  a  tail-piece,  of  Lord  Bacon,  with  the  title  of  his  Advance- 
ment of  Learning  underneath  him,  have  reminded  us  that  the  classics 
are  apt  to  be  too  bald  and  uninviting  in  these  matters.  The  omission 
may  be  translated  into  a  compliment ;  but  we  like  a  few  of  these  trifles 
thrown  in  by  the  bookseller.  We  are  of  the  school-boy's  mind,  and 
are  so  willing  to  have  our  imaginations  set  at  work  by  the  most  unas- 
suming of  prints,  that  we  never  knew  but  one  instance  in  which  they 
came  amiss  :— and  there,  we  confess,  the  good-nature  was  something 
hard  upon  us.  Original  designs  may  not  be  so  well  in  a  classic  ;  but 
gems  and  other  antiques  are  always  at  hand  to  furnish  subjects  at  once 
cheap,  applicable^  and  gracefal.     It  is  true,  we  cannot  expect  them  in 

Vol.  [L 


162  THE  INDICATOR. 

an  edition  Intended  to  be  cheap  as  well  as  neat,  like  the  present ;  bat 
if  the  bookseller  has  good  taste,  and  even  good  policy  enough,  he  may 
always  allow  us  something  of  the  kind.  The  ancient  world  was  sa 
profuse  in  its  productions  of  art,  and  has  become  so  identilied  with  them 
in  our  imagination,  that  we  give  them  the  special  title  of  antiques  and 
antiquities ;  and  no  ancient  author  should  come  to  us  unadorned  with 
some  of  their  graces.  There  should  be  one  gem  at  least  on  his  finger. 
We  should  have  his  philosopher's  chair,  or  his  Muse,  or  his  lyre  and 
crown,  or  a  characteristic  bas-relief^  such  as  we  might  suppose  him  to 
have  had  on  his  walls ;  and  a  portrait,  if  possible,  always.  No 
matter  whether  it  does  him  justice  or  not,  provided  it  means  to  do  so. 
We  must  imagine  that  we  see  him  darkly,  like  a  friend  at  twilight. 

And  now  with  the  usual  gratitude  which  quarrels  with  a  pleasant 
thing  because  it  is  not  perfect,  we  must  find  fault  with  Mr.  Pickering's 
Horace  for  not  having  a  Life  as  well  as  a  Portrait.  It  is  a  pity,  espe- 
cially as  the  lives  prefixed  to  the  poet's  works  are  so  short.  The  very 
longest  as  well  as  best,  which  we  believe  is  the  one  attributed  to 
Suetonius,  would  hardly  have  taken  up  more  than  a  couple  of  pages. 
We  should  also  have  liked  heads  to  the  Satires,  notbecause  they  are 
necessary,  but  because  they  make  a  work  look  the  more  complete  and 
companionable;  and  Horace  in  particular  can  never  look  to9much  so. 

Should  the  book  come  to  a  second  edition,  we  hope  these  little  faults 
may  be  mended.  We  trust  also,  that  Mr.  Pickering  will  succeed 
enough  in  his  speculation  to  follow  it  with  editions  of  Catullus  and 
others,  not  forgetting  Ovid,  who  though  a  voluminous  writer  as  gene- 
rally published,  may  be  compressed  into  a  comparatively  trifling  siae 
by  means  of  Mr.  Corrall's  type  and  workmanship.  Besides,  Ovid, 
though  some  of  his  writings  are  very  long  on  the  face  of  them,  is 
almost  split  into  as  many  small  portions  as  a  lyric  poet,  when  we  come 
to  read  him ;  and  this  we  take  to  be  a  main  recommendation  of  authors 
who  are  to  be  carried  in  the  pocket.  The  other  indispensible  requi- 
site, with  us,  is,  that  they  should  be  pleasant  or  poetical.  We  do  not 
care,  for  instance,  for  a  pocket  Juvenal ;  though  we  once  heard  of  a 
Scottish  gentleman,  who  used  to  take  one  with  him  in  his  country 
walks,  that  he  might  have  a  book  when  he  sat  down  on  the  grass.  We 
would  as  lief  select  a  puddle  for  putting  our  legs  in,  or  lounge  an  a 
.liay  cock  with  an  executioner. 


FRENCIJ  AND  ENGLISH  DRAMA. 

y  ■■Sir,— -I  siffl  a  Frenchman,  yet  so  uninfluenced  by  national  prejudice, 
that  I  hate  no  hesitation  in  acknowledging  the  excellence  of  yoar 
papers.  Some  times,  however,  I  am  vexed  with  you.  Why  bestow 
such  admiration  on  Italian  works,  and  never  praise  our  Chef  d'CEuvres 
de  Theatre  I    Have  the  complaisance  to  read  some  of  them, — you  will 


Tlife  INElICATORj"^'  iW 

he  en6iiante,d.  Many  6f  ^  tny, .  coiihtrymeD,  now ,  residing^  iti' ■  liOhddftjt  • 
wtould  certainly  be  proad  to'  Subscribe  for  yoir  Indicators^  At}'ii\ie(u\l  ■ 
price  1(twopence  each),  if  you  deign  to  take  the  hiAtof  a  sincere  ; 
friend.  .     .  .    .  ■ ,'     ■"■''■:  ■■''   '''     ■•    ''  "'  .■'  -  '  "  '  '      -''''^ 

It  is  my  ambition  to  dfreci/ybur  attention  to  oar -Drama,  where?  f 
every  unbiassed  mind  miist  confess  we  far  surpass  the  rest  of  thfe  world. ' 
As  for  your  Shakespear,  untutored  as  he  was  in  those  laws  which  pre- 
scribe a  scrupulous  exactness,  a  courtly  elegance,  a  tasteful  delicacy, 
his  works  are  as  inferior  to  our's  as  a  real  landscape  is  to  a  beautiful  ■ 
painting  on  enamel.     Had  he  been  born  a  Parisian,  he  might  have  ■ 
been  a  man  of  genius.     To  come  to  the  point :  how  is  it  possible  toi ' 
eulogize  an  author  who  makes  a  King's  son,  the  hero  of  his  tragedy,  a 
certain  person  named  Hamlet,  talk  of  his  mother's  old  shoes — ^whose 
Madam  Macbeth  tells  her  husband  to  go  and  wash  his  hands — and 
whose  Othello  and  Desdemona,  in  a  scene  intended  to  be  pathetic,  all 
at  once  most  grotesquely  enter  into  a  conversation  about  their  dinner 
engagements  for  the  week?     Alas!  how  are  a  hero  and  heroine  de- 
graded by  allusions  to  their  domestic  economy,  and  above  all  to  their 
necessity  of  eating^.     I  defy  our  bitterest  enemy  to  point  out  a  single 
instance  of  the  word  "  manger''''  being  introduced  into  our  tragedies. 
No,  Sir,  we  are  not  so  barbarous;  though  your  Shakespear  does  not 
hesitate  to  speak,  in  downright  words,  of*'  feeding,"  and  of  "  sauce 
to  meat,"  and  then  adds,  "  now  good  digestion  wait  on  appetite  V    This 
is  gross,  and  destroys  all  elevation  of  character.  I  say  nothing  of  his  out- 
rageous rhodomontade, — it  is  too  notorious.     No  wonder  it  provoked) 
our  pun  upon  his   name,  which  always  brings  down  a  thunder  of  ap-^ 
plause  from  the  audience,  when  the  incomparable  Brunet,  after  spout- 
ing a  string  of  bombastic  lines,   suddenly  turns  to  our-  critics  in  the 
parterre,  and  exclaims,  ^'  N'ai-je  pas  Vair  d'un  chat  qui  expiue!". 
which  is  very  witty. 

It  would  be  well  to  examine  how  our  poets  and  your  Shakespear 
have  severally  succeeded  in  pourtraying  the  same  characters.  I  trust 
you  will  do  so  the  first  opportunity.  In  the  mean  time,  permit  me  to 
offer  a  few  words  upon  the  Achille  of  the  divine  Racine,  and  the 
Achilles  of  Shakespear.  At  this  you  will  shake  your  head,  and  say  it 
is  hardly  fair ;  for  Troilus  and  Cressida  is  not  considered  your  be»t 
play,  and  the  Iphigenie  has  been  declared  by  Voltaire  to  be  the  noblest 
^'ffort  and  the  most  perfect  work  of  man.  I  own  it  does  appear  some- 
what invidious.  However  lam  tempted  to  make  choice  of  this  cha- 
racter,—or  rather  these  characters,  for  they  are  quite  distinct  beings 
in  the  hands  of  the  two  authors, — I  say,  I  fix  upon  them  on  account  of 
my  having  it  in  my  power  to  bring  forward  an  extract  from  a  MS.  work,; 
an  elaborate  criticism  on  Troilus  and  Cressida.  In  doing  this  I  not 
only  give  fair  play,  but  am  wonderfully  amused  in  observing  how 
studiously  the  writer  dwells  upon  those  peculiarities  which  he  ima- 
gines to  be  beauties,  but  which  in  reality  are  gross  deformities.  It  is. 
\ery  droll.     Here  it  is. 

"  Shakespear  seems  to  have  made  choice  of  the  story  of  Troilus  and 
Cressida,  for  the  purpose  of  displaying  the  military  character.     He 


l$4i  THE  ITO^qATORt 

sljowB  us  the.  seTffral  species  af^  solc|i€irs-^the  frivolous  and  the  re- - 
voltipg,  the  adBRJraljle  &h4  I  }ie  amiable,    ,X^e  love  scenes,  the  women,  . 
aud  the  comic  characters,  are  sometjipea  a  relief,  but  generally  a  fur- 
therance to  the  main  design.     In  his  other  plays  his  fighters  are  not . 
mere  soldiers  ;  they  have  some  cause. djeac  to- their  bosoms  which  urg^s 
them  on  ;  they  *  have  their  quarrel  just,'  or  they  think  they  have,., or 
it  is  a  struggle  for  power.     But  here  they  have  no  excitement  beyand 
their  profession.     The  affair  originated  in  an  oath  of  gallantry,  and  is 
continued  as  a  point  of  honour.  It  becomes  a  by-gone  dispute.  It  is  an 
after  seven  year's  .siege.     No  man  appeals  to  it  as  he  draws  his  sword. 
It  served  well  enough  for  the  ground-work  of  a  declaration  of  war, 
but.it  grows  weaker  as  Helen  grows  older.     They  fight  because  they 
know  not  how  tt)  leave  off.     No  one  can  be  personally  interestt^d  ex- 
cept Menelaus  and  Paris,  who  are  like  two  rival  njon^rchs,  with  their 
assembled  forces,  while  the  lady  is  the  kingdom^  whose  gain  or  loss 
cannot  possibly  affect  the  crowd  on  either  side.     They  combat  in  their 
calling, — no  matter  for  the  cause,  provided  they  are,  regularly  paid. 
So  then,  these  ancient  heroes,  these  Greeks  and  Trojan.s,  are  exactly 
similar  to  the  camp  gentlemen  of  Shakespear's  day  !    Aye,  and  of  this 
day  too,  and  of  a  thousand  years  hence ;  for  nature  and   he  know  not 
the  change  of  manners.     She  and  he  walk  hand  in  hand   through  allr 
the  modifications  of  fashion,  the  same  that  was,  and,  is.  and  ever  shall 
be.     In"  this  play  he  introduces  the  reader,  a  silent  and  invisible  spec- 
tator, to  an  officers'  mess,  where  he  touches  them  by  turns  with  his 
iftagic  wand,  his  Ithuriel's  spear,  and  every  faculty  is  laid  opea  to  its 
source,  whether  good  or  ill.     They  talk,  and  he  furaishes  the  argu- 
ment of  their  discourse,  givin^g  them  golden  breath.     Thersytes  and 
Pandarus  stand/ibehiBd  their  chairs,  significantly  pointing  at  whatever 
h  ridiculous  or  contemptible  :  while  Shakespf-ar  himself,  in  his. own 
.  sweet  words,  whispers  in  our  ear  the  loves  of  the  boy  Troilus  |wid.  t^e, 
false  Crfessid.  ',  r,  .  '       ' 

"  Let  us  begin  with  Achilles.  We  seehijn  here  divested  of  super- 
natural machinery,"— he  has  no  communion  with  '  Olympus'  Hierarchy,' 
as  'm  the  Iliad, — a  very  mortal,-— and  indeed  the  least  estimable  one 
in  the  play.  However,  being  '  great  Thetis'  son,'  he  shall  have  priority. 
The  Greeks  call  him  *  the  sinew  and  the  forehand  of  their  host,'  and 
no  one  is  iilore  sensible  of  his  importance  than  himself.  They  cannot^ 
proceed  without  him,  while,  for  his  part,  he  chooses  to  be  the  '  sleep- 
ing lion,"-^to  be  sulky  and  keep  his  tent.  This  mood  falls  in  with 
his  haughtiiiess  and  indolence,  especially  as  it  is  against  the  wishes  of 
his  party.  Indeed  he  has  one  reason  for  '  this  his  privacy,' having 
sworn  not  to  fight  against  Troy,  for  the  sake  of  one  of  Priam's 
daughters.  This  oath  however,  with  such  a  man,  is  liable  to  be  for- 
gotten ;  so  much  »Oj  that  it  requires  a  letter  from  Hecuba,  and  a  token 
ftrom  Polyxena,  to  remind  him  of  it.  Nor  is  his  passion  for  the  lady 
much  in  his  thoughts.     He  is  no  Romeo.     Patroclus  says  to  him— 

'  Rouse  yourself,  and  the  weak  wantoli  Cnpid 

Shall  from  your  neck  unloose  his  amorous  fold, 
And,  tike  a  dew-drop  from  the  lion's  niauc, 
JJe  shook  to  air.' 


-     THE  INDICATOE,  ■  1^ 

And  Palroclus  knew  better  than  to  give  him  outrageous  counsel,  Hg. 
knows  hie  can  shske  cff'the  •w'eak  franton  Cupid  at  his  will;  and  in 
fact  he  does  so  at' the  last',  when  a  litronger  paSsiou  *  like  Aaron's,  ser- 
pent swallows  up  the  rest.'  His  love  of  fame  surpasses  his  Ipve  of! 
woman ;.  but  his  prid^  overcomes  both ;  and  his  revenge,  when  tho- 
roughly roused,  tops  tKem  all.  Achilles'  pride  is  in  the  mouth  of  ever  j. 
character  in  the  piece,  while  he  and  his  humble  servant  Patroclus  agree 
to  call  it  by  the  name  qf  greatness,  till  they  talk  themselves  into  a  be- 
lief of  it.  Let  Agamemnon  and  the  Chiefs  approach  his  tent,  and  hum- 
bly beg  him  to  come  forth,— to  *  arm  and  out :'  thia  is  his  deirght  ;  it 
is  good  for  his  pride;  it  is  another  oppoirtunrty  for  an  evasive  insolent 
message.  In' the  mean  time,  with  a  keener  relish,  he  caa  Ifsteh  to  iho. 
*  scurril  jests,'  and  admire  the  slanderous  mimicry  ofPatroclus,  while 
at  this  sport  ,     . 

'  The  large  AchiUes,  on  his  press'd  bed  loltirt^,"  ' 

>■(..  •  |F?".*"*  '•'*  deep  chest  hiughs  out  a  loud  applau*^^'    ^^^^^j  .^^j^  ^j  ,^^j    j^^ 

Otife  ©f  the  ^n est  touches  is  where,  hi ^  pride  bftiiig  hiht,  Ue^plfiri^  fty 
moralize.  Then  comes  Ulysses,  and  makes  thisiftrghty  man  a  vnlghty 
puppet,  with  his  '  ttepision  medicinable^'  playing  upon  him^  and  souircf- 
ifig  him  *  from  the  lowe&t  note  to  the  top  of  his  coropass'.*  He  is  made 
the  jee^  of  the  army,  when  he  fancies  himself  at  his  wisest  pornf. 
Ajax  is  envious  of  his  illustrious  name ;  Achilles  cannot  envy  afiy 
body,  since  he  is  confessedly  above  all ;  but  lie  hates  Hector  for  beings 
next  m  fame  t^  himself.  That  Hector  is  a  dangerous  neighbour.  He 
caanot  look  upon  Mm  without  fearing  that  the  world  may,  at  some  fti- 
turetime,  compare  them  together.  He  therefore  eagerly  desires  to  kifP 
him,  and  in  his  '  greatness'  tells  him  so  to  his  fac^.  This  is  nev^r  off 
his  mind.  He  is  angry  rf  any  one  else  presum^^s  to  fight  with  Htcfofi. 
Even  when  about  to  fcast  him  ifthistent^  htj  saysj-J^''  «  .^qiiii'i^i  -jfAyu-. 
.^         .  .  ■     .    -    .         '  '.     ■i'l^'giil^l   '>'i'  rno'! 

.. ,  ;  I  ..  ,.^  Vll  heal  his  blood  wiih  Greekislj,  wioe  ^^■^''ah^?ori'»  aij;   .tdtiei'i'l  > 

.  Wliicli  with  my  scimitar  TH  cool  to-morrovv..,  ■  ,.  ' 

-  •'  ..  -..-,     .u  JIBS}    9l!t    irO    j(lt*..f 

The  wounded  Patroclus  is  brought  to  him,f-4«^  '  jHi.v  farir.  fflojJ  -tnnf 
,,.     ,,,.,.,,.  ;       .5-.0  oi  8<:-.>ib5«  8'^.'{oiaii'>U 

'  Kinncdom  d  Acnilles  m  commotion  rages, 

And  batters  dovvai,  liimseK'     -  ;    •!,:!   ,f  I  rrm  wo"!  " 

He  is  described  as  '  arming,  weeping,  icursiDg^  volving  vengeance,'  and 
hurries  forth,  attended  by  hiSmyrmidoris,  in  pursuit  of  liject'cr,  vvKoiii 
he  finds  unarmed  and  alone.  The  revenge  of  Achilles  cannot  '  forego 
this  vantage.'  '  Hector  the  great  must  di<'.'  No  comment  is  needed 
here.  The  character  is  in  keeping  from  first  to  last.  And  if  '  great 
Thetis'  son'  dragged  Hector's  body  three  tinier  round  the  walPs^bf 
Troy,  he  was  precisely  th&  man  that  Shajiespear  has  delineated. 

'  Compare  him  with  Hector '"" 

»«*♦♦•# 

'  But  here  I  sto^,  for  I  know  nothing  of  Hector,  dstHe  divine  It'ddine 
1ms  not  cotidescended  to  dramatise  him.  The  writer  of  the  above  ap^ 
peaj-s  to  be  out  of  his  senses.  Is  such  an  Achilles  to  be  tolerated  ?  A 
f«ftMv' who  lollb  upon  a  bed,  laughs  aloud,  liste^is^l'Q 'sCfUti"!!  jesLs, 


i^  Titfe'iifiri^ifcATolti:^ 

thitiks  nothing  of  breaking  an  oath,  is  turned  into  derision,  fights  vvUlt . 
odds  against  an  unarmed  ipan,  and  is  not  constsmt  in  love !  Sir,  this ' 
may  be  very  natural,  but  certainly  makes  no  hero,  and  consequently 
is  unfit  for  the  drama.  Allow  me  to  observe  by  the  way,  that  Shake- ' 
spear  seems  to  have  followed  Homer.  Now  Homer  is  a  bad  proto- . 
type  in  these  days,  for  be  it  remembered  Homer  did  not  write  to  jadte^ ' 
and  gentlemen. 

What  a  relief  to  turn  our  thoughts  to  the  Achille  of  the  polished  ' 
Racine !     How  tenderly  he  lovres  the  fair  Iphigenie !     Mark  how  . 
sweetly  he  addresses  her— "  Princesse,  mon  bonheur  ne  depend  que 
de  vous !" — which  is  a  fitte  ide%  and  beautifully  expjriessed.  [And  how  ' 
fondly  he  talks—hark!     '■":        5      r""  //    .  ^['"T    '-  = ;  . -^  ^'^'^  ;'; 

*' On  dit  qn' Iphigenie,  en  ces  lieiix  amenee, 
Doit  bienidt  4  8on  sort  unir  ma  deslinee  1" 

As  he  is  the  hero,  it  is  not  proper  any  one  should  outwit  him  ;  Ulysses 
tries,  but  in  -vain ;  this  is  as  it  should  be,  in  order  to  keep  up  the 
sublimity  of  the  scene.  How  different  from  your  Shakespear  with  his 
*' derision  medicinable !"  To  crown  all,  the  divine  Racine  so  ad- 
mirably draws  his  characters,  that  they  never  vary  from  the  beginning 
of  the  tragedy  to  the  end,  but  remain  the  whole  of  the  time  under  the 
influence  of  one  passion  (love  of  course),  and  actuated  by  nearly  the 
same  sensations.  I  think  I,  have  almost  said  enough. 
.  With  the  greatest  satisfaction  I  now  offer  an  opinion,  which  is  a 
high  compliment  to  the  English.  It  is  this  : — I  imagine  their  language, 
if  properly  cultivated,  would  prove  to  be  nearly  equal  to  our's  in 
strength  and  elegance.  This  I  discovered  some  time  ago  in  the  tra- 
gedy of  the  Distressed  Mother,  translated  from  Racine  by  Mr.  Am- 
brose Phillips,  who  perhaps  is  not  now  alive.  The  above  quotations 
from  the  Iphigenie,  following  such  strange  jargon  from  Troilus  and 
Cressida,  are  enough  to  make  many  despair  of  so  desirable  an  attain- 
ment on  the  part  of  our  countrymen.  However,  I  have  hope.  See 
how  truly,  and  with  what  politesse,  "Mr.  Ambrose  Phillips  translates 
Hermione's  address  to  Orestes  : 

"  How  am  I  to  interpret.  Sir,  this  visit  ? 
I»  it  a  compliment  of  form,  or  love  ?" 

This  is  positively  equal  to  the  French.     Again j  Pyrr.hus; speaks — 

"  Oil,  'tis  a  heavy  task  to  conquer  love. 

And  wean  the  soul  from  her  accustom'd  fondness!" 

■pnce  more.     They  are  charming  passages. 

*' Andromache  appears!     May  I,  Madam, 

Flatter  my  licpes  so  faras  to  believe 

You  come  to  seek  me  here?"      .  . 

These  examples  induce  me  to  think  something  can  be  effected  with 
your  language.  Besides,  an  intimate  friend  of  mine,  Mr.  Wigson,  a 
gentleman  of  great  talent  (who  ingeniously  corrects  this  letter  as  I  go 
on  J,  has  made  an  entire  translation  of  the  Iphigenie,  in  the  original 
measure,  and  in  rh}me.     It  is  a  glorious  ornament  to  your  literature. 


THE  INDICATOR.  167 

Yet  the  managers,  aware  of  the  perverted  taste  of  the  town,  have 
refused  it,  candidly  confessing  they  do  not  believe  it  will  succeed  iit 
representation.  I  will  delight  you  with  a  specimen;  and  you  shall 
have  the  French,  that  you  may  make  a  judicious  comparison  between 
them.  It  is  the  famous  speech  of  Achille,  in  the  last  act,  where  pity 
and  terror  are  wound  up  to  the  highest  pitch,  after  his  listening  to 
Iphig^'nie's  resolution  to  be  sacrificed  at  the  altar,  in  obedience  to  the 
commands  of  his  father. 

jichille.  He  bien,  ii'en  parlons  plus.     Obeissez,  cruelle, 
Et  cherchez  une  mort  qui  vous  semble  si  belle: 
Portez  k  votre  p^re  un  ccBiir  pu  j'entreyoi 
Mollis  de  respect  pour  lui  que  de  haine  pour  moi. 
Une  jusle  fureur  a'empare  de  mon  ame  ! 
Vous  allez  a  I'auiel ;  et  moi,  j'y  cours,  Madame. 
Si  de  san<;  et  de  moris  le  ciel  est  affame, 
Jamais  de  plus  de  sang  ses  auteis  n'on  fume. 
A  mon  aveugle  amour  tout  sera  legitime: 
Le  pretre  devieiidra  la  premiere  victime; 
Le  buelier,  par  mes  mains  detruit  et  renverse, 
Dans  le  sang  des  bourreaux  nan;era  disperse;  ' 

Et  si,  dans  les  horreurs  de  ce  desordre  extreme, 
Votre  pere  frappe  tombe  et  peril  lui-meme, 
Alors,  de  vos  respects  voyant  les  tristes  fruits, 
Reconnoissez  les  coups  que  vous  aurez  conduits!    (II  sort.) 

Thus  superbly  rendered  by  Mr.Wigson.  Every  line  is  accurately 
given —  '  -  liisiviii;  iMii 

^c/iiHcs.  Well  talk  not  about  if.     Obey,  and  be  spiteful,  ■    '; 

And  yield  to  a  death  which  you  think  so  delightful; 
Take  back  to  your  father  a  heart  where  I  see 
Less  of  duly  to  him  than  of  hatred  to  me ; 
My  soul's  filled  with  rage  till  it  cannot  hold  more! 
Go,  Ma'am,  to  the  altar,  and  I'll  run  before. 
If  the  heavens  are  famish'd  for  blood  and  dead  bodies, 
There'll  be  more  than  enough  for  each  God  and  each  Goddess. 
Blind  with  love  through  all  legal  constraints  I  shall  burst; 
The  reverend  priest  shall  be  victim  the  first ; 
I'll  knock  down  the  funeral  pile  to  tlie  mud, 
I'll  make  the  sticks  float  in  the  murderer's  blood; 
And  if,  in  the  midst  of  this  horrible  uproar. 
Your  father  should  fall  and  should  never  get  up  more, 
Then,  woe  upon  you  for  a  dutiful  daughter. 
And  own  'twas  yourself  that  committed  the  slaughter!     (Exit.) 

Mr.  Wigson  has  at  present  gone  out  of  the  house,  and  I  fear  much 
to  write  more,  without  his  most  good  corrections.  It  is  therefore  to 
conclude,  Mr.  the  Indicator,  with  the  most  perfect  consideration,  I 
embrace  you  with  all  my  heart,  and  am,  eternally,  your  very  obedient 
and  very  humble  servant,  Patrocle. 

M.  the  Indicator  makes  his  best  acknowledgments  to  M.  Patrocle 
and  returns  his  embrace  with  as  large  a  piece  of  his  heart  as  M.  Pa- 
trocle's  all-conquering  criticism  has  left  in  his  body.  What,  he  fears 
however,  will  vory  much  shock  M.  Patrocle,  though  he  trusts  to  his 
candour  for  excusing  it,  is  that  he  is  so  far  gone  in  the  seductions  of 
that  jade  Nature,  as  to  be  unable  to  help  liking  the  criticism  he  has  in- 
cluded in  his  own.     What  is  said  about  the  officers'  mess  in  particular. 


168  '  THia  tNDlCATOR. 

stpikerf  him  siH  beirfg.ter^  ^fltlcal  and  judicious,  and  perfeps  tvould 
;not  not  come  so  much  atnfss  to  some  of  t^e  more  ille'gitin1at6  country- 
men of  M.  Pati'ocle,  if  they  could  contrive  to  separate  in  their  imagi- 
nations  those  very  oddly  connected  characters,  Shakspeare  and  the 
puke  of  Wellington.  At.tlie  Sanae  time,  M.  I'lndicatenr  is  extnettiely 
'happy  to  acknowledge  the  very  native,  merit  of  the  other  criticisn^,  and 
begs  M.  Patrocle  to  accept  the  assurances  of  th$  h^igU.Qonsidefatiaii, 
with  which  he  is  an  infinite  number  of  etceteras;      ''r*  ''**  >^*  ^.■nuAini'.i' 


CUPID  AND  CAMPASPE. 

The  following  song  is  .from  an  old  play  by  Lyiy.  It  has  been  re- 
printed in  Percy's  Reliques,  and  lately  in  Mr.  Hazlitt's  work  on  the 
Literature  of  the  Age'of  Elizabeth  ;  but  it  is  like  one  of  those  happy 
things  in  conversation,  \yhich  a  friend  cannot  avoid  repeating,  if  he 
thinks  there  is  one  h(  arer  tliat  does  not  know  it.  We  cannot  refer  to 
what  Mr.Hazlitt  hpssaid  of  it,  his  books,  as  we  are  always  having  rea- 
son to  find  when  we  most  waiit  them,  bteing  of  that  description  of  pro- 
-jiefty  wiiicji  may  emphatitally  be  called  bprrowable,;  but  we  remember 
his  advising  us  to  do  the  very  thing  we  are  now  doing  with  it.  We 
then  were  i<n  comparative  h^-alth,'  and  thought  we  must  talk  on  to  the 
end  of  the  chapter,  or  the  reader  would  not  like  it.  Such  is  the  vanity 
of  sprightly  blood  !  We  arie  glad  that  the  readers  approve  this  mode 
of  filling  up  a  spajceat  the  end. of  our  paper.  We  cannot  apologise  for 
cur  present  week's  number;  but  sick  or  well,  dull  or  amusing,  we 
shall  thus  be  afways  sure  of  something  to  conclude  with,  like  a  glass  or 
two  of  good  pjd  wine  after  dinner. 

Cupid  and  my  Campaspe  played 
At  cards  Tor  kisses ;  Cupid  paid, 
He'stakes  his  quiver,  bow,  and  arrows:, 
His  mother's  doves,  and  team  of  sparrows; 
Loses  tliem  too.     Then  down  he  throws 
,  ,•     ■         t  .The  coral  of  Ins  lip,  tlie  rose 

Grotviiiii;  oil's  cheek,  (but  none  knows  ho\v7, 

.,         ,      .      .And  then  the  dimjiie  ot  MIS  chin ; 
"*  ^■'V''-''*^"'.  ^'    '^All. these  did  my  Campaspe  win. 
I  ,noIiflTibi>ii"}>  '.  At  i»sl  he  set  her  fo<Mh  his  eyos,'   . 
Jil.iib'ido  Vl;>y   iU^he^won,  and  Cupid  blind^did  rise.  _j  ^^^  ,,y 
.,--„„_., ff        O'LoVe!  lias  she  done  this' to  thee  ?  , 

.jaOOitlAl       What  shall,  alas!  become  of  me?      -'I-'^  -^i- 

"jfrirtteidawd  published  by  Joseph  AppLErARD,  No»  19,  Calheriiie«stree»,  Strand. 
..tiPrtce  2d.— And  sold  also  by  A.  Gliddon,  Importer  of  Souffs,  No.  31,  Tavistorjc- 
stieet,  Covent-garden.    Orders  received  at  the  abovp  places,  and  by  all  Book- 
'     sellers  and  Newsmen. 


0~l 


THE    INDICATOR. 

There  Ue  arriving  round  about  doth  flie,  '  .  ;  h.  ^ 

And  takes  survey  witU  busie  curious  eye:  '     .  .      *1 

Now  this,  now  that,  he  tasteth  tenderly.         '  •'>-rrOO  lU  iiVN  31 

:  »   -,.  ii.riSPBNSEU.:    .''*!Y/  1  ilXl  itbhUu. 


.1.  ^.li)  nil  n.»4<tj'I  >iv  i\ 

No.  LXXr v.— WEDNESDAY,  MARCH  7th,  1821. 


'  THE  ENGLISHMAN  IN  PARIS.    ) 

Mr.  Indicator, — The  following  piece  of  Biography  appeared  id 
tne  so  very  singular,  that  I  thought  it  might  afford  some  amusement  to 
you  and  your  rea<lers.  I  have  translated  it  from  the  Life  of  Gretry, 
Written  by  himself,  in  three  volumes,  and  entitled,  "Memoirs  and 
Essays  upon  Music."  Gretry  is  known,  I  believe,  in  England  as  the 
composer  of  Richard  Coeur  de  Lion  ;  but  the  list  of  his  works  given  in 
the  above-mentioned  publication  ertumerates  no  less  than  thirty-four 
operas  composed  by  him,  which  are  printed,  and  sixteen  in  mafiuscript; 
Hale,  the  subject  of  this  extract,  was  an  Englishman,*  whb  resided  ^at 
Paris,  and  wrote  three  pieces  for  the  French  theatre,  which  wereset 
to  music  by  Gretry.  Hale  was  introduced  to  the  French  musician  by 
Suard  as  a  man  of  good  understanding,  in  whom  a  fine  taste  was  united 
with  originality  of  ideas.  He  must  have  been  a  pei'fect  master  of  the 
French  tongue  io  have  written  for  the  theatre,  a  circumstance  which 
Gretry  remarks  as  singular,  and  thinks  that  no  one  in  reading  the 
pieces  would  have  believed  them  the  production  of  ap  Englishman,  the 
style  was  so  clear  and  idiomatic.  ■-       > 

•  Hale's  first  piece,  adapted  to  music  by  Gfetry  in  178S,  was  the 
Judgment  of  Midas,  and  was  rejected  at  Court,  where  it  was  customary 
for  the  Genticmen  of  the  Bedchamber  to  decide  upon  the  merit  of  new 
•plays!  : 

-  Afterwards,  by  desire  of  the  Duke  d'OrleanS',  it  was  performed  at 
the  house  of  Madame  de  M***,  who  played  the  part  of  Chloe  "  with 
as  much  grace  as  nature."  At  a  sitting  of  the  French  Academy  this 
performance  was  mentioned  in  very  slighting  terms,  and  the  orator's 
opinion  becoming  public.  Hale  heard  of  it,  and  dedicated  the  Judgineht 
of  Midas  to  him  in  a  pleasant  satirical  letter,  which  Gretry  had  great 
difficulty  in  persuading  hira  to  suppress. 

At  last  the  piece  was  acted  at  Paris,  and  was  well  received  by  all 
but  the  lawyers'  clerks,  who  were  supposed  to  be  the  authors  of  the 
following  printed  letter  sent  to  Gretry : — ■ 

*  The  French,  with  tlieir  characteristic  nationality,  transformed  his  name  to 
D'Hele. 

Vol.  IL 


170  THE  INMCATOR. 

"  Sir, — The  Lawyers*  Cleiks  invite  you  to  a  hissing  of  the  second 
performance  of  the  Judgment  of  Midas,  in  which  piece  they  consider 
themselves  insuhed." 

Gretry  adds  pleasantly,  "  the  second  representation  of  the  Judg- 
ment of  Midas  was  in  truth  a  little  stormy,  but  the  clerks  lost  their 
suit." 

It  was  in  consequence  of  the  Tarious  success  which  the  Judgment  of 
Midas  met  with,  that  Voltaire  wrote  the  follawing  (pzatrainy  which  his 
niece,  MadaiBe  Denrs^  ga»e  to  Gretry  :— 

La  Gour  a  denigre  les  chanis 

Dont  Paris  a  dit  des  merveillesj 

Gretry,  les  oreiHfis  des  grands  -   • 

Sont  souvewl  des  grandes  oreifle*. 

Which,  may  be  rendered  thus  In  English, — 

The  Court  has  d'erklBd' those  son.gs 
Which  Paris  received  with  such  cheers; 
Greiry,  th«  ears  of  the  great 
Are  frequently  very  greaf  ears* 

Of  the  second  piece  which  Hale  wrote,  Gretry  says,  *^  It  rs  HseTes* 
to  praise  the  Jealous  Lover  ;  the  public  hare  never  ceased  to  consider 
it  a  iriodf  I  of  its  kind."  *  It  was,  however,  much  disliked  at  the 
rehearsal,  which  took  place  a,t  Versailles  on  the  day  of  its  first  repre^ 
sentation,  and  so  certain  dr^  its  doom  appear,  that  when  Gretry  was 
dining  with  the  Gentlemen  of  the  Bedchamber,  several  of  them  thought 
proper  to  condole  with  him  ;  he  begged  them  to  ask  the  King's  per- 
mission to  begin  the  evening  with  tbis  play  instead  of  another,  which 
it  was  to  feave  succeeded.  The  King  consented.  The  fate  of  the 
Jealoiis  Lover  entirely  changed  in  the  performance,  aiid  "  I  own," 
says  Gretry,  "that  this  transition  from  a  diecided  failure  to  a  brilliant 
success,  in  so  short  an  interval,  was  to  Hale  and  to  myself  a  delicious 
moment."  He  continues,  *'  what  rejections  might  not  be  made  on 
the  ^evolutions  which  a  work  undergoes  before  it  is  acted  and  judged— « 
«>ri  the  uncertainty  Which  must  be  felt  even  by  authors  of  the  greatest 
experience." 

The  third  cotfiedy  \*hiGh  issued  froBai  the  pen  of  Hale  was"  named 
Unforeseen  Events,  and  was  the  last  work  of  that  author.  Gretry 
says,  "  J,  more  than  any  ane,  ought  to  regret  the  loss  of  such  ftne 
taifents  :  if  death  had  not  taken  from  this  world,  in  the  flower  of  his 
agCj  a  man  who.  not  only  had  the' clearest  ideas  himself,  but  knew  bet- 
ter tfean  any  one  hmv  to  arrange  and.  perfect  tliose  of  others,  many 
■works,  without  doubt,  would  have  follo\ved  those  I  have  mentioned." 

Without  further  introduetion,  I  shall  ilow  endeavour  to  give  you 
th«  Bibgraphieal  Anecdotes  of  Hale  in  Gfetry's  own  words  :— 

"  Hale  had  passed  his  youth  in  the  service  of  the  British  navy^ 
■where  appareiitly  the  excessive  use  of  strong  liquers,  and  an  accident 
which  he  informed  roe  he  had  received,  occasioned  a  weakness  on  his 
lungs.     While  he  was  aboard,  he  and  a  party  of  officers  got  intoxicated 

*  From  the  description  piven  of  the  plot,  it  is  avidenlly  taken  from  Mrs.  Cent- 
Vivrfi's  coftiedy  of  The  Wortder,  aUl*ough  Greiry  does  not  seeta  lo  be  aware  cvf  itter* 
being  buch  a  play  in  English. 


THE  INDICATOR.  If  I 

with  punch ;  and  his  thirst  during  the  night  was  so  great  that  he  drank  a 
bottle  of  spirits,  which  the  motion  of  the  vessel  had  rolled  towards  him. 
He  lived,  however,  very  soberly  at  Paris;  all  othier  tastes  and  pas-_ 
sions  seemed  annihilated  in  him,  to  animate  that  of  love.  The  loss 
of  his  fortune  had  occasioned  his  coming  to  Paris  to  conceal  his  indi- 
gence, and  a  lady  of  that  city  dissipated  the  remainder  of  his  property* 
It  Avas  then  he  became  occupied  for  the  theatre,  and  constantly  fre-. 
quented  the  Cafe  du  Caveau  (the  cellar)  at  the  Palais  Royale^  Hale 
«poke  little,  but  always  well ;  he  never  thought  it  worth  his  while  to 
talk  upon  subjects  which  are  supposed  to  be  generally  known,  but 
would  interrupt  the  common-place  chatterer  by  saying  in  a  dry  tone 
■*  that  is  printed.'  He  marked  his  approbation  of  what  was  said  by  a 
tslight  nod  of  the  head.  If  they  put  him  out  of  patience  by  their  non- 
sense, he  crossed  his  legs,  compressing  them  with  all  his  might,  took 
the  pinch  of  snuff,  which  he  always  carried  between  his  finger  and 
thumb,  and  looked  another  way.* 

"  The  judgment  he  pronounced  upon  new  pieces  was  irrevocable  ; 
and  the  newsmoijgeis  founded  their  bets  upon  his  political  conjec- 
tures. It  is  easy  to  believe  that  Hale  expected  fror^  other  men  the 
same  clearness  of  intellect  ^yhich  he  himself  possessed,  and  which  is 
conspicuous  in  his  works;  he  had  not  the  power  of  inyention,  bu^ 
there  were  few  things  which  did  not  improve  in  his  hands  j  he  was 
slow  in  his  productions — I  wili  not  say  he  was  idle,  indeed  np  one  can 
be  so  who  is  constantly  reflecting,  but  he  had  within  him  that  rigid 
yet  consolatory  principle  of  criticism,  which  a  hundred  tiines  rejectSj 
before  it  oijce  pTonounc^j  '  that  is  well  done,'  Many  people  hav^ 
quoted,  and  still  continue  to  quote  him,  as  a  model  of  ingratitude; 
but  I  firmly  believe,  that  absorbed  m  his  own  ideas,  he  n^erely  forgot 
his  benefaptors  as  he  would  have  done  his  own  benefactions.  B,eing 
forced  to  fight  with  a  man  who  insulted  him,  after  having  lent  him 
money  which  he  could  not  repay.  Hale,  after  disarming  him.  said  with 
true  English  pl^legmj  '  If  I  were  not  your  debtpr,  1  would  kill  ypu;  if 
we  had  vvitnesses,  I  would  wpund  ypii ;  as  we  ^re  alone,  I  forgive  you.* 

*'  So<)n  after  I  sent  hjlra  a  sum  of  money  frqm  thie  Duke  d'Qrleans, 
«,t  whose  bo-use  I  had  brpught  put  the  Judgment  of  Midasj  he  did  not 
answer  my  note,  but  merely  said  to  the  servant,  'very  well.'  Aftier 
haying  met  him  twenty  times,  at  last  I  said  to  him,  '  I  suppose  you 
received'  ,  /  Yes,'  said  he,  and  I  was  not  astonished  that  he  did  not 
add  a  word  of  |:hank$. 

'^  The  first  day.pf  the  representation  of  the  Jealous  Lover  at  Pari;^, 
fee  wrote  to  me  the  following  note :— :'  I  am  not  able  to  come  to  your 
house,  come  therefore  to  me  directly,  and  bring  with  you  about  ten 
louis,  without  which  I  must  go  to  prison,  instead  of  this  night  attend- 
ing the  opera.'  His  bed  was  surrounded  by  bailiffs,  for  Hale  had  suiV 
fered  judgment  to  go  by  default,  in  ^n. action  which^  had  been  brought 

*  Thi«  trait  in  Hale  reminds  one  of  those  pheasant  lines  in  Goldsisith'^  Retalia- 
tion, wherp,  speaking  of  Sir  Joshua  Beynolds',  hesays — 
To  coxcombs  averse,  yet  aiost  civilly  steering. 
When  they  jiVdaecl  without  skill,  he  was  still  hard  of  hearih"  J 
When  they  talked  of  their  Raphaels,  Correggios,  and  stuff, 
lie  sliified  iiis  trumpet,  and  only  took  snuff'. 


i^i  TilE  INDICATOR. 

against  him  by  the  woman  who  had  squandered  the  remainder  of  his 
fortune,  and  who  yet  exacted  the  rent  of  the  room  she  had  given  him 
at  her  house.        ; 

*'  It  was'with  the  same  confidence  and  nonchalance,  that  being  one 
day  at  the  house  of  a  friend,  he  put  on  some  clothes  of  which  he  stood 
in  need,  and  went  away.  His  friend  came  in  soon  after,  and  wishing 
to  change  his  dress,  could  not  find  all  he  wanted.  Hale  Mas  the  only 
person  who  had  been  in  the  apartment,  but  no  one  dared  to  suspect 
him.  At  night,  however,  the  gentleman  met  him  at  the  coffee-housf, 
and  putting  his  hand  on  Hale's  knee,  said  to  him,  '  Are  not  those  my 
pantaloons  ?' — ^  Yes,'  said  he,  '  I  had  none.' 

■  "  It  is  far  from  my  intention  to   throw  ridicule  on  the  character  of 
such  a  man  ;  he  could  not  blush  for  actions  which  were  in  him  the\ 
Tt'Sult  of  fixed  and  unalterable  principles.     I  knew  him  for  a  long 
^hile  nearly  naked,  yet  pity  was  not  the  sentiment  he  inspired  ;  his 
noble  countenance,  and  the  tranquillity  depicted  on  it,  seemed  to  say, 

'  I  am  a  man  :  what  mor«  do  I  need  !'  " 

■  "  *'  If  the  termination  of  a  slow  disorder,  not  painful,  but  which  never 
spares  it  victim,  had  been  protracted  but  for  a  fortnight.  Hale  would 
have  left  us  another  work,  and  this  work  would  have  insured  him  the 
competence  due  to  superior  talent.  It  was  designed  for  the  Trianort 
theatre.'  .    - 

!  .  "  A  few  days  before  his  death,  he  crawled  to  see  me  ;  I  was  con* 
fined  io  my  bed  on  account  of  my  old  complaint  (expectoration  of 
blood);  he  comforted  me,  and  assured  me  that  he  fe!t  betJer  every 
day,  and  should  not  be  long  before  he  wrote  the  piece  for  the  Trianon, 
which  he  was  eager  to  finish,  as  he  wished  to  set  out  for  Venice. 
Hale  never  began  to  write  until  he  had  the  whole  of  his  work  arranged 
in  his  mind.  I  had  remarked  in  his  productions,  that  when  he  said 
*  r have  finished,'  there  remained  no  longer  any  doubt  with  him  as  to 
the  incidents,  the  situations,  or  the  manner  in  which  he  would  conduct 
them.  I  can  therefore  be  certain,  that  the  Avork  which  1  regret  was 
absolutely  terminated,  and  that,  as  the  great  Racine  said,  '  there  re- 
mained nothing  but  to  write  it.'  *  Of  what  kind  is  your  new  piece  V 
said  I.—'  It  is  a  Portuguese  subject,'  answered  he,  '  and  I  think  yoa 
•will  like  it.'  He  died  a  few  days  afterwards,  thinking  more  of  the 
situations  of  his  opera  than  of  his  owui  He  had  in  his  hands  a  book 
of  the  post-roads  :  he  was  going  to  rejoin  the  objectof  his  love,  and 
while  choosing  a  route  by  which  he  might  avoid  the  highest  mountains, 
took  quietly  that  road  wherein  terminates  humanity."  O.  B. 

'    ,'  f:';;  i  •' — ;  sii;;)   ;^;i,,VdIiol 


-ill-.:,      ,      ■    ~r-j;[j    1o  b^')i<'ffi    ffiO^f-::! 

■'■'  ''^"^    -■^'^'''"■l^yinbAL  POETRY. 

Sir,-— Having  some  little  notion  of  authorship  myself,  I  can  very 
easily  conceive  that  as  Editor  of  a  periodical  paper  you  are  some- 
times reduced  to  a  low  ebb  of  matter,  paddling  along  with  difficulty 
among  little  shallows  of  thought,  or  quite  becalmed,  and  whistling  for 
a  breeze  of  fancy.  In  this  belief  I  take  the  liberty  of  suggesting,  that 
there  is  a  species  of  poetry  very  little  attended  to,  but  very  well  worth 
attention,  wbichj  when  a  time  such  as  I  have  alluded  to  shall   next 


THE  INDICATOR.  173 

arrive,  it  will  be  a  laudable  effort  of  the  Indicator  to  introduce  to  pro- 
per notice.  Enough  has  been  said  of  every  other  kind  of  poetry.  The 
Epic,  the  Dramatic,  the  Lyric,  and  the  Pastoral,  have  had  their  full 
share  of  comment  and  eulogium.  But  nobody  writes  about  the  NaiUU 
call  And  yet  this  is  a  distinct  species  of  poetry,  distinct  in  its  irpages 
and  associations,  which  are  likewise  as  grand  as  they  are  peculiar. 
I  am  at  a  loss  to  account  not  only  for  the  neglect  of  the  very  little 
which  has  been  written  of  this  kiqd,  but  for  the  scarcity  itself.  I  am 
not  a  poet  myself;  my  ideas  have  not  been  trained  to.  run  in  couples  5 
my  thoughts  fly  like  swallows,  without  order  or  controul,  and  not  like 
wild  geese,  in  forms  and  figures.  Nevertheless,  prosaic  as  I  am,  I 
cannot  go  down  the  River  to  Ramsgate  or  Margate,  or  sail  from  Dover 
to  the  Downs,  without  feeling  myself  as  it  were  oppressed  by  the  mag> 
nitude,  sublimity,  and  novelty  of  the  scene.  The  sea  itself,  that  mate- 
rial representative  of  eternity,  is  an  inexhaustible  source  of  ideas. 
When  I  have  called  to  mind  the  many  fine  things  which  have, been?  said 
by  poets  sitting  under  trees,  by  little  prattling  brooks,  on  the  sides  of 
hills,  in  flowery  groves  and  bowers,  &c.  &c.,  I  cannot  imagine  why 
no  poet  has  tried  the  insjnration  of  sitting  at  the  bow  of  a  fine  vessel 
on  a  clear  evening,  when  the  sun  has  just  sunk,  and  a  fresh  breeze  is 
blowing  abaft,  the  gulls  flying  round,  the  white  cliffs  declining  into  the 
horizon,  the  sailors  sitting  about  with  their  arms  folded  as  the  vessel 
scuds  along  before  the  wind,  listening  to  one  who,  with  a  clear  voice 
and  a  Kentish  dialect,  sings  "Loose  every  sail  to  the  breeze  ;"  while 
at  intervals  is  heard  the  splash  of  the  lead  line,  and. the  finely  toned 
chaunt  of  the  man  who  heaves  it — "  and  a  half  four." 

It  seems  somewhat  strange  that  readers,  who  can  enter  with  spirit 
into  the  circumstances  of  village  life,  its  cares,  its  loves,  and  its  mrrry- 
makings,  who  read  Crabbe,  and  Bloomfield,  and  Goldsmith,  and  Cun- 
ningham, and  Burns,  and  who  admire  Morland'5  pictures^  should  deal 
so  fastidiously  with  the  homely  part  of  a  seafaring  life.  Nautica^ 
Poetry  may  be  divided  into  two  parts:  you  may  find  names  for  themj 
.if  you  please.  One  treats  of  the  subject  as  connected  withthe  world, 
.developes  its  associates  and  its  consf^quences,  carries  us  into  the  depths 
of  its  mysteries,  places  us  under  huge  rocks  in  wave-worn  cavorn^3 
brings  us  acquainted  with  the  inhabitants  of  the  deep,  shews  us  thfe 
wonders  of  a  storm,  and  so  stretches  our  minds  to  the  grasp  of  Ocean's 
majesty,  that  we  no  longer  retain  sufficient  tension  to  keep  ships  and 
sailors  without  our  regard.  The  other,  nqt  presuming  beyond  the  facts 
as  they  appear,  confines  itself  io  a  description  of  matters  immediately 
connected  with  human  life.  The  business  of  a  sailor,  his  introduction 
to  thfi  sea,  hio  perils,  his  toils,  his  hopes,  and  his  reward;  the  struc- 
ture, beauty,  and  management  of  his  ship  ;  these  are  the  principial 
objects  on  which  the  minor  division  of  Nautical  Poetry  dilates.  The 
Shipwreck  of  Falconer,  though  partaking  of  both,  belongs  rather  to 
the  nobler  species.  It  is  some  time  since  I  read  it;  but  if  I  recollect 
rightly,  it  has  the  fault  of  being  enveloped  in  a  pompous  fiction  of 
persons,  and  overloaded  with  classical  alli«!ions.  Of  the  minor  species 
are  those  sea  songs  which  flutter  on  railings,  and  engage  all  the  learn- 
ing of  pretty  Polls  and  Sues,  and  in  which,  to  say  the  truth,  the  cir- 
cumstances are  pretty  nearly  of  one  and  the   same  kind.     The  hero 


174  THE  INDICATOR. 

begnis  Ws  career  as  a  waterman,  and  we  may  fancy  him  a  tight  yoath 
Jh  all  the  charms  of  white  ribbed  stockings,  brown  jacket,  yellow 
handkerchief,  atid  hat  of  long  rough  nap  and  ribbon  band,  his  name 
being  either  Joe,  Tom,  or  Beft.  He  captivates  a  'longshore  lass, 
either  Bet,  Nancy,  or  the  daughter  of  a  washerwoman  or  humble  ale- 
house landlady.  While  the  current  of  their  lives  seems  to  be  as 
Smooth  and  aS  gay  as  the  Thames  on  the  day  of  a  rowing-match,  he 
gets  pressed,  a  misfortotie  which  causes  more  of  sorrow  than  surprise, 
'i'bey  lament,  kiss,  vow,  exchange  presents  (he  giving  a  thimble  or 
housewife,  and  she  a  broach  or  tobacco-box),  and  part.  She  turns  her 
love  to  account  in  iuCreasihg  her  industry  at  home,  and  he  his  in  rais^ 
ing  hiis  courage  in  danger.  She  thinks  on  him  as  she  darns  stockings 
or  washes  trowsers,  and  he  6n  her  as  he  loads  his  gun  or  goes  aloft  in 
a:  gale.  The  catastrophe  Ttaries.  Sometimes  it  is  the  hero's  death  in 
battte  or  by  shipwreck,  and  his  trueloye's  of  course  on  the  arrival  of 
tfiffe^tfews:  sometimes  his  return  and  getting  pressed  again  before  he 
haiH^feven  set  his  foot  on  shore,  and  the  breaking  of  her  heart  with  grief 
at  the  disappointment :  sometimes  the  inconstancy  of  the  fair,  and  the 
lover^s  going  to  sea  again  in  despair,  getting  into  the  hottest  of  the 
fightj  and  dying  with  the  name  of  his  cruel  Poll  on  his  lips.  Yet  is 
ther^  to  me  in  all  these  an  expressible  charm.  Some  of  the  songs  are 
purely  narrative,  and  in  these  the  precision  is  a  striking  feature. 
Some  begin  with  the  exact  date  of  the  action  or  circomstauce  which 
constitutes  the  subject,  as-^ 

"In  seventeen  hundred  and  ninetv-tiin?. 
On  ihe  twenty-fourtli  of  June,"  &c. 

with  many  repetitions  of  "  Said  the  captain,  said  he,'-'  and  "  Then 
said  our  bold  captain."— But  the  main  beauty  of  these  songs  is  the 
novelty  and  force  of  the  images  and  figures.  In  a  battle  song  which 
't  once  h^Jard,  the  ht)rrdr  of  the  scene  was  conveyed  in  this  espressife 
iine-r— 

**  And  llie  scuppers  were  streaming  with  gore." 

'Another  describing  a  ship  sailing  out  of  port  with  fair  wind,  bfgins 
•with  "  When  our  anchors  were  weighed  to  the  bows."  I  do  not  in- 
tend to  recommend  those  spurious  sea  songs  in  which,  while  there  are 
a  few  sea  terms  introduci?d,  the  images  are  not  exclusively  nautical, 
but  genuine  sea  songs,  unsophisticated  eifusions  of  a  sailor's  heart,  who 
knows  little  or  nothing  beyond  his  rudder  and  compass,  and  is,  in  the 
words  of  the  fine  old  songy  "  All  as  one  as  a  piece  of  his  ship."  Such 
songs,  for  example,  as  "  My  name  it  is  Tom  Tough,"  '*  Will  Watch,'' 
"  Tom  Bowling,"  and  "  Wapping  old  stairs."  In  all  which  they 
describe  I  feel  an  intense  interest.  I  cannot  tell,  either  by  my  own 
feelings  or  by  reasoning  on  the  facts,  why  the  scenes  of  pastoral  and 
agricultural  life  should  be  dwelt  on  with  more  pleasure  than  is  felt  in 
reading  of  ports,  tiers  of  ships,  trim  cutters  ably  manned,  fishing-nets, 
check  shirts  lying  along  the  clean  shingles,  white  sails,  and  streaming 
pendants.  A  fine  tree  is  ,  certainly  a  fine  sight,  but  not  a  finer  one 
than  a  ship  in  full  sail.  The  unloading  of  a  fine  well-stored  vessel, 
and  the  carrying  of  her  cargo  into  the  warehouses,  may  well  bear  com- 
parison with  the  getting  in  of  a  harvest.  A  neat  green  and  white  skiff, 
deep  but  thinly  made,  and  dancing  lightly  at  its  moorings  on  a  greeu 


THE  INDICATOR.  I7i 

sea  within  a  large  harbour,  is  a  sight  to  which  I  can  compare  no  rural 
object  with  which  I  am  acquainted,  unless  it  be  a  fine  clean  ox  feeding 
in  a  rich  meadow.  And  what  can  equal  the  pleasure  of  being  the  first 
to  walk,  over  a  fine  sandy  bay  just  after  the  tide  has  left  it  ?  How  ittm 
"vitingly  level !  How  provocative  of  verse  !  A  fine  lawn  cannot  equal 
it  unless  the  lawn  be  covered  with  young  children  at  play,  or  a  dozeik 
of  merry  couples  dancing.  But  I  must  not  ran  on  to  too  great  4 
length. 

I  hope  then  that,  from  what  I  have  said,  you  i^ill  take  these  sub«« 
jects  into  your  consideration,  and  invite  some  of  the  modern  poets  to 
make  trial  of  a  coasting  voyage,  and  a  short  residence  at  a  small  seEi-r 
port  town,  where  they  make  anchors  and  ropes,  and  build  small  vessels. 
You  may  assure  them  from  me,  who  have  tried  it  often,  that  it  will  fill 
their  minds  with  as  fine  food  as  any  that  can  be  got  from  an  inlaiid 
residence,  be  the  country  as  fine  as  it  may.  And  there  is  one  mocterni 
poet  in  particular,  to  whom  you  may  say  that  an  old  friend  begs,  hittt 
to  "  do  this  in  remembrance  of  him,"  aad  iti  preference  to.  carryijafg 
the  Muses  into  such  vile  places  as  Fives  Court,  the  Castle,  and  tira 
Hole. in-the- Wall.  Only  think  of  the  Muses  at  the  Hole-in-the» 
Wall  !*-I  am j  Sir,  your  obedient  servant  and  constant  reader, 

p.  S.  A  few  words,  when  time  serves,  on  the  subject  of  Wateriflgi 
places,  would  be  very  acceptable  to  some  of  your  readers.  They  are 
places  which  lie  under  base  imputations,  the  effect  of  a  vulgair  pre* 
judice. 

ELIA  VERSOS  INDICATOR. 
The  ingenious  author  (we  hate  resentment)  of  the  articles  with  thfc 
signature  of  Elia,  in  the  London  Magazine,  complains  of  us  for  saying 
that  he  was  "  a  Mr.  h — b."  This  is  an  evasion  but  too  characteristic. 
We  understand,  of  the  clever  but  mendacious  writer.  Gall  himself  what 
he  may,  we  deny  that  we  called  him  L— b.  The  name  we  mentioned 
was  one  of  four  plain-spoken  honest  syllables,  belonging  to  a  respect- 
able friend  of  ours,  whose  pardon  we  must  beg  for" confounding  him 
with  this  his  too  fortunate  mimic.  He  says,  that  "  a  writer  whose  real 
name,  it  seems^  is  Boldero,''  (it  is  with  great  scorn  that  we  acknowledge 
we  cannot  help  laughing  at  this  and  some  other  passages  of  his  tirade) 
that  a  writer  whose  real  name,  it  seems,  is  Boldero,  but  who  amuses 

the  town  under  the  signature  of (mentioning  a  signature  which 

never  appears  in  these  papers)  charges  him,  Elia,  with  not  writing  the 
articles  under  that  name,  &c. :  and  in  another  part  of  his  petulant  imi- 
tation of  our  friend's  style,  (written  doubtless  after  he  had  lost  to  some 
occasional  player  at  whist)  he  accuses  us  of  being  assassins  of  his  very 
essence, — fellows  who  not  only  forbid  him  "  to  6e  any  longer,  but- to 
have  been  at  all :"  and  therefore  he  cries  out  upon  our  "  ancestors  to 
look  to  it."  As  if  a  man  of  the  name  of  Elia  could  have  had  any  an- 
cestors !  To  attribute  the  labours  of  us  two-pennyauthors  to  a  perspi;i 
even  of  the  same  name  as  that  of  an  eminent  banking  family,  savours.,  of 
too  sorry  a  spirit  of  jesting;  but  what  will  the  reader  say,  when  he 
hears,  that  Elia,  with  all  his  personalities  upon  other  people,  and  the 


ITS  THE  INDICATOR. 

indiffpfent  knavery  of  hi^s  it  seems,  is  neither  more  nor  less  than  thja 
vwy  Mr.  L— -b,  for  whom  lie  pretends  we  took  him  ?  And  yet  he  has 
Jiot  aa  opinion  of  himself  sutliciently  handsome  to  acknowledge  even 
that !  If  Indeed,  it  be  not  rather  that  he  has  too  good  a  one,  and  is 
far  gone  in  the  vanity  of  modesty.  At  any  rate,  see  the  jealousy  of 
some  people.  This  Mr.  L— b  is  so  impatient  of  having  his  soul  or 
better  half  of  him  looked  at,  that  as  rabbits  will  fall  upon  their, 
young  if  you  stare  at  them,  he  flies  upon  himself  for  very  anger^ 
arid  tears  out  his  inward  riian.  He  will  have  none  of  his  oivii 
body.  With  one  stroke  of  his  pen  he  exenterates  himself, — L — b.' 
He  is  Pajtus  and  Arria  in  one,  and  will  die  rather  than  be  lorded  over 
with  love.  Like  the  Spartan  boy,  who  stole  the  fox,  he  will  have  his 
bowels  torn  out,  sooner  than  acknowledge  himself  for  the  rogue  he  isi 
He 'is  a  true  thief  and  modest  withal, — nobody, — only  a  head  and  3 
liedv  His  jealousy  knows  no  medium.  He  abolishes  all  his  inter- 
fnediate  faculties,  as  an  Egyptian  lets  nothing  be  seen  about  his  wife 
bui  her  eyes  and  feet.  It  really  disturbs  the  natural  current  of  our 
trdpical  blood  to  see  these  capricious-climated,  peevish-veined  English 
{Gi&noese  forsooth !)  insisting  upon  being  at  once  loved  and  not  loved^ 
laudable  and  not  praised,  personal  yet  anonymous.  There  loas,  by 
the  liye,.  a  family  of  the  name  of  Elia  who  came  from  Italy, — Jews  ; 
j*hrch  mpyapequtH;  for -this, bQJ\st  about. Genoa.  See, also  in  his  last 
article  in  the  Loudon  Magazine  some  remarkable  fancies  of  conscience 
in  reference  to  the  Papal  religion.  They  further  corroborate  what, we 
have  heard;  viz.  that  the  family  were  obliged  to  fly  from  Genoa  for 
saying  that  the  Pope  was  the  author  of  Rabelais  ;  and  that  Elia  is  no^ 
an  anagram,  as  some  have  thought  it,  but  the  Judaico-Christian  name  of 
the  writer  before  us,  'whOSie' surname, -we  find,  is  not  Lamb,  but 
liomb-;— '.Elia  Lonib  !'  ,Wbat  a  name  1  He  told  a  friend  of  our^  so  in 
companyj  and  would  have  palmed  himself  upon  him  for  a  Scotchman, 
1)ut  that  his  countenance  betrayed  him.  We  regret  that  such  a  person 
«ho.uld  have  had  us  at  a  disadvantage ;  and  shall  take  care  in  future 
how  we  panegyrise  our  betters  in. such  a  way,  as  to  render  them  liable 
to  be  coafoanded  with  their  inferiors. 


..   '      ,  TO   CORRESPONDENTS. 

i    OnrCorrespMulenJs,  D.  T.,  W.  H.  C,  H.,  aiK^  J.  N.,  wiZl  accept  our  thanks* 
We  have  not  forfiotten  the  promise  uUuded  to  by  tjie  first.  . 

An  answer  Jo  the  Letter  on  Frencl»  Literature  as  early  as  possible. 
-■Two  passHges  in  the  Letter  from  a  Distinguished  Personage,   which  appeared  in 
■ouf  last  liuiDber  but  6ne,.were  wrongly  printed,  and  ought  to  have  stood  thus  : —  ■ 

'•  Of  both  sexes  tlie  nitijority  may,  liowever,  declare  with    truth,  that  tiie  hours 
they  spend  in  my  service  are  tlie  most  innocent,  and  frequently  the  most  happy. 

*' In  scenes  of  intemperance  my  influence   is  frequently  stronger   than  that  of 
reason  :  I  often  stop  their  career,  and  by  degrees' restore  them  to  their  senses." 
,     For  "  the  sun  blushes  at  them  from  heaven,"  read  also,  "the  sun  blushes  at 
ibem  from  his  highest  throne  in  heaven." 


I;  oJ 


rrinted  and  published  by  Joseph  Appleyard,  No.  19,  CBlherine-slreet,  Strand. 

Price  2d.— And  sold  also  by  A.  Gliddon,  Importer  of  Snuff's,  No.  31,  Tavisiock'- 

'     street,  CoveiU-garden.    Orders  received  at  the  above  places,  aod  by.  all  Book- 

,    sellers  and  Ne<rsineu.  .       »..  !'.•   .'.iL't  Jtjb  {S'le.-ll 


.noyr^m/.i  riHT  ;;':j: 


J,-*«V 


THE    INDICATO 


There  he  arriving  round  about  doUi  file. 
And  takes  survey  with  busie  curious  eye:  ■ 
Kqw  this,  nov^  tltati  lie  tasteth  tenderly. 

SPBNSER. 


?f,'IO>i    fidi        • — — 

No.f!.'SfX'¥.^WEDNESDAY,   MARCH  l4th,  1821. 


puLcr. 

■  W-B  prose nt  our  readers  with  a  prose  abridgment  of  the  beginning' 
»f  tire  Moro;ante  Maijgiore  of  Liiigi  Pulci,  the  father  of  Ilaliari 
romance.!  We  would  rather  have  given  it  tliem  in  verse  ;  but  it  would, 
hhve   taken; more  time  and  attention  than  we  can  just  now  afford.- 

Besides,  a  fvioste' specimen  of  this  author. is  a  less  unjust  one,  than  it 
w-otildbeof  anj^  of  his  s^uccessoFS,;  because  though  a= real  poet,  he- is 
nvit  so  ^nvJiient  as.a  versifier,  and  deals  less  in  pbetjcal  abstractions. 
He  has.  les^Jof  tlit>  oracular  ©r  voiceful  |>art  of  his  art,  conversing  almost' 
e«ctusivi»ly  with  the  social  fdelings  in  their  most  familiar  language. 

'  Ijuigi  Puici,'  the  younger  of  three  literary  brothers,  was  bora  the 
L5tH  of 'DeCeTwber  (3(1,  O.S.),  1431.  His  family  was  noble,  and  pro- 
I)ab!y  gav^e-  thieij'  narno  to'  .the  .district  of  Monte-  Pulciano,  famous  for 
the  superemiaence  of  its  wine.  It  was  a  fit  soil  for  him  to  grow  in. 
He  had  'an-enriable  lot,  with  nothing  to  interrupt  his  vivacity  ;  passiiig 
his'.ljfain  the  shaides  of  ease  and  retirement,  and  "  warbling  his  native 
^vobd-note!^  wild"  without  fear  of  hawks  from  above  or  lurking  reptiles; 
from  below.  Among  ihis  principal  friends  were  Politian,  Lorenzo  de 
MrtiicT,"  and  the.  latter's  mother  Lucrezia  Tornabuona.  He  speaks 
very  affectionately  of  her  ntemory  at  the  close  of  his  work.  At  Lo— 
reiizo's  table  he  was  a  constant  guest ;  and  at  this  table,  where  it  is 
possible  that  the  future  Pope,  fceo  the  Tenth,  was  present  as  a  little 
boy,  he  is  said  to  have  read,  as  he  produced  it,  that  remarkable  poem, 
which  thcold  Italian  critics,  were  not  agreed  whether  to  think  pious  oi: 
profane.* 

-  The  rea^dtir,  at  this  time  of  day,  will  be  inclined  to  think  it  the  latter; 
fldr  will  the:  reputation  of  Pope  Leo  himself,  who  is  said  to  have  made 
dsc  of  the  word  Fable  on  a  very  remarkable  occasion,  be  against  their 
verdict.  Undolibtedly  there  was  much  scepticism  in  those  days,  as 
there  always  must  be  where  there  is  great  vivacity  of  mind,  with  a  great 
demand  upon  its  credulity.    Bat  we  must  take  care  how  we  pronounce 

i»;i   :;   ,       '.  ■   -  •..  :     .       ;     .    ., 

;-*  Ijeo  wastbdcn  to  I47fit,  fotty-four  years  after  llie  hirth  of  Polci;  so  that  sup- 
posing the  latter  to  have  arrived  at  any  itiinir  like  length  of  days,  he  may  have  had, 
«he  voung  Fattier -of  the  Faithful  for  an  auditor. 

Y6l.  H. 


.178  THE  INDICATOR. 

upon  the  real  spirit  of  manners  unlilce  our  own,  when  we  consitler  ih» 
extraordinary  mixture  of  reverence  and  familiarity  with  which  tlie 
most  bigoted  periods  of  Catholicism  have  been  accustomed  to  treat  the 
objects  of  their  faith.  They  elbow  them,  till  they  treat  them  like 
their  earthly  kindred,  alternately  expecting  most  from  them,  and 
behaving  worst  by  them.  Popish  sailors  have  angrily  scourged  the 
idols,  whom  they  have  prayed  to  the  minute  before  for  a  fair  wind 
The  most  laughable  exposure  of  the  tricks  of  Roman  Catholics  in 
our  own  language  is  by  old  Ileywood  the  Epigramatist,  who  died 
abroad  "  in  consequence  of  his  devotion  to  the  Roman  Catholic 
cause." — "  The  bigotry  of  any  age,"  says  Mr.  Hazliit,  "  is  by 
no  means  a  test  of  its  piety,  or  even  sincerity.  Men  seemed  to 
make  themselves  amends  for  the  enormity  of  their  faith  by  levity  of 
feeling,  as  well  as  by  laxity  of  principle;  and  in  the  indilierence  or 
ridicule  with  which  they  treated  the  wilful  absurdities  and  extrava- 
gances to  which  they  hood-winkied  their  understandings,  almost  resem- 
bled children  playing  at  blind-man's  buff,  who  grope  their  way  in  the 
dark,  and  make  blunders  on  purpose  to  laugh  at  their  own  idleness  and 
folly." — Lectures  on  the  Literature  of  the  Age  of  Elizabeth,  p.  192.- 
It  may  be  added,  that  they  are  sometimes  like  children,  playing  and 
laughing  at  ghosts  in  daylight,  but  very  much  afraid  of  them  at  night- 
time. There  have  not  been  wanting  readers  to  take  all  Pulci's  levity 
in  good  religious  part.  This  does  not  seem  possible ;  but  it  is  possible 
that  lie  may  have  had  a  certain  conventional  faith  in  religion,  or  even 
regarded  it  as  a  sentiment  and  a  general  truth,  while  the  goodness  of 
Ijis  disposition  led  him  to  be  ironical  upon  particular  dogmas.  The 
reader  must  judge  him  in  charity,  giving  him  the  beneiit  of  his  doubts, 
M'iiatever  they  may  be.  His  heart  is  in  the  right  place  j  and  heaven  is 
around  that,  wherever  it  is. 

The  specimen  now  laid  before  the  reader  is  perliaps  as  good  a  one, 
for  prose,  as  couklhave  been  selected.  The  characteristics  of  our  poet 
lire  wildness  of  fancy,  pithiness  of  humour,  sprightliness  of  transition, 
and  tenderness  of  heart.  All  these,  if  the  reader  has  any  congeniality 
of  spirit,  he  may  find  successively  in  the -outset  about  the  gmnts,  the 
complaint  made  of  them  by  the  Abbot,  the  incipient  adventures  of 
Morgante  in  his  new  character,  and  the  farewell,  and  family  recogni-; 
tion,  of  the  Abbot  and  Orlando.  The  passages  about  the  falling  of 
manna,  and  the  eternal  punishment  of  those  who  are  dear  to.  us,  fur- 
nish the  earliest  instance  of  that  penetration  into  absurdity,  and  the 
unconscious  matter-of-course  air  of  speaking  of  it,  which  constitute 
the  humourous  part  of  the  style  of  Voltaire.  The  character  of  Mar- 
gutte,  who  makes  his  appearance  in  Canto  18,  and  carries  this  styJe  to 
its  height,  is  no  less  remarkable  as  an  anticipation  of  the  most  impudent 
jiortraits  of  professed  worldliness,  and  seems  to  warrant  the  suspicions 
entertained  respecting  the  grosser  sceptics  of  that  age,  while  it  shews: 
the  light  in  which  they  were  regarded  by  the  more  refined.  In  Mar-, 
gutte's  panegyrics  upon  what  he  liked,  appear  to  be  the  seeds  of  Berni 
und  his  followers.  One  of  the  best  things  to  be  said  of  the  serious 
characters  of  Pulci,  and  where  he  has  the  advantage  of  Ariosto  him- 
self, is  that  you  know  t'ticm  with  more  distinctness,  and  become  more 


THE  IN^DICATOR.  179 

pergonaUy  Intereeled  in  them  as  people  like  yourself;  wliereas,  In. 
Arioato,  with  all  his  humanity,  the  knights  are  too  much  of  mere 
knights,— warlike  animals.  Their  flesh  and  blood  is  >bo  much  en- 
CfKSted  by  their  armonr.  Even  Andrea  Rubbi,  th6  quaint  and.  formal 
ifdltor  of  the  Parnaso  Italiano,  with  all  his  courtesies  towai'ds  all  esta- 
blished things,  says  in  distinguishing  the  eiFect  of  three  great  poets  ot 
Italy,  (hat  "  You  will  adore  Ariosto,  you  will  admire  Tasso,  but  you 
will  love  Pulci."  The  alliteration  suits  our  critic's  vivacity  better: — 
"  In  fine,  tu  adoreral  I'Ariosto,  tu  ammireral  il  Tasso,  ma  tu  amerai  il 
Pulci." 

Twelve  Paladins  had  the  Emperor  Charlemagne  in  his  court ;  aud 
the  most  wise  and  famous  of  them  ^yas  Orlarulo.  It  is  of  him  I  am 
about  to  speak,  and  of  his  friend  Morgante,  and  of  Gan  the  Traitor, 
Svho  beguiled  hiai  to  his  death  in  Roncesvalles,  where  he  sounded  his 
liorn  so  strongly  after  the  Dolorous  Rout. 

It  was  Easter,  and  Charles  had  all  his  court  with  him  in  Paris, 
making  higli  feast  and  triumph.  There  was  Orlando,  the  first  among 
them,  and  Ogier  the  Dane,  and  Astolfo  the  Englishman,  and  Ansuigi : 
and  there  carae  Angiotin  of  Bayonne,  and  Uliviero,  and  the  gentle 
Berlinghiert ;  and  there  was  also  Avolio,  and  Avino,  and  Otho  of  Nor- 
mandy, and  Richard,  and  the  wise  Name,  and  the  aged  Salamon,  and 
Walter  from  Monlione,  and  Baldwin  who  was  the  son  of  the  wretched 
Gan,  The  son  of  Pepin  was  too  happy,  and  oftentimes  fajrly  groaned 
for  joy  at  seeing  all  his  Paladins  assembled  together. 

But  Fortune  stands  watching  in  secret,  to  baffle  out  designs.  While 
Charles  "was  thus  hugging  himself  with  delight,  Orlarido'go^'erned  every 
thing  at  court,  and  this  made  Gan  burst  with  envy  ;  so  that  he  began 
one  day  talking  with  Charles  after  the  following  manner  :—'^  Arc  we 
always  to  have  Orlando  for  our  master?  I  have  thought  of  speaking 
to  you  about  it  a  thousand  times.  Orlando  has  a  great  deal  too  much 
presumption.  Here  are  we.  Counts,  Dukes,  and  Kings,  at  your  ser- 
vice, but  not  at  his;  and  we  have  resolved  not  to  be  governed  by  a 
boy.  You  began  in  A^pramont  to  give  him  to  understand  how  valiant 
he  was,  and  that  he  did  great  things  at  that  fountain  ;  but  if  it  had  not 
been  for  the  good  Gerard,  I  know  very  well  where  the  victory  would 
have  been.  The  truth  is,  he  has  an  eye  upon  the  crown,  and  this, 
Charles,  Is  the  worthy  who  has  deserved  so  much  :  all  your  Generals 
are  afflicted  at  it.  As  for  me,  I  shall  repass  those  mountains  over 
which  I  came  to  you  with  seventy-two  Counts.  Do  you  take  him  for 
a  Mars?" 

Orlando  happened  to  hear  these  words  as  he  sat  apart,  and  it  dis- 
pleased him  with  Gan  that  he  should  speak  so,  but  much  more  that 
Charles  should  believe  him.  He  would  have  killed  Gan,  if  Oliver 
had  not  prevented  him  and  taken  his  sword  Durlindana  out  of  his 
hand  ;  nay,  he  could  have  almost  killed  Charlemagne  himself;  but  at 
last  he  went  away  from  Paris  alone,  raging  with  scorn  and  grief.  He 
borrowed  as  he  went,  of  Ermellina  the  wife  of  Ogier,  the  Dane's  sword 
Cortana  and  his  horse  Rondel,  and  then  proceeded  on  his  way  to 
Crava.  Ilis  wife,  Alda  the  Fair,  hastened  to  ernbrac.e  him  ;  ]»ut  yvliiie 
she  was  sayini;  '•  Welcome  my  Orlando,"   he  was  going  to  strike  her 


180  TitEiNDicATBff 

•;'".y^-/-*f.!i>/i  ;:i  ..;,,-,;,      ...  .    f  -  ^.. ,-...*  s  yj. 

on  the  head  with  his  «word,  for  his  head  was  bevvildei'ea,'arKi  n'e  ibotc 
her  for  Ganellone.  The  Fait;  Alda  marvelled  grea.tly,  but  tDrlando 
soon  recollected  himself,  and  she  took  hold  of  the  bridle,  and  he  leaped 
from  his  horse,  and  told  her  all,  that  had  passed,  and  rested  himself 
with  her  for  some  days.  .     .  ., 

He  then  tobk  his  leave,  being  s.till  carried  away  by  hisfdisaarn,  ari^f 
■tesolved  to  pass  over  into  Pagan-land;  and  as  he  rode,  hie  thought 
every  step  of  the  way  of  the  traitor  Gan  ;  and  so,  riding  on  wherever 
the  road  took  him,  he  reached  the  confines  between  the  ChHstlaii 
countries  and  the  Pagaq,,  audi  came  upon  ^^^  ^bbjey,  sitiia^e  in  a  dai-k 
.  place  in  a  desart.  ^'-ta/^  J  •    A  '"     ,'        V  - 

Now  above  the  abbey  w,as  a  great  mountain^' inhabited  by*' three 
fierce  giants,  one  of  whom  was  named  Passamonte,  another  Alabastro, 
and  the  third  Mprgante ;  and  these  giants  use^d  to  drsturb  t'he  abbey, 
by  throwing -things  down  upon  it  from  the,  mountain  with  stings,  so 
%hat  the  poor  little  monks  could  not  go  out  to  fetch  vvopd  brwafter. 
Orlando  knocked,  but  nobody  would  open,  till  the  Abbot  was 'Spoken 
to.     At  last  the  Abbot  came  himself,  apd  opening  the  door,  bade  him 
welcome.     The  good,  man  told  him  the  reason  of  the  delay,  and  said 
that  since  the  arrival  of  the  giants,   they  had  been  so  perplexed  every- 
day that  they  did  not  know  what  to  do.     "  Our  ancient  fathers  in  thp 
desart,"  continued  he,  "  were  rewarded  according  to  their  holiness,. 
It  is  not  to  be  supposed  that  they  lived  only  upon  locusts  ;  doubtless, 
jit  also  rained  manna  upon  them  from  heaven  ;  but  here  one  is  regaled 
with  stones,  which  the  giants  rain  upon  us  from  the  mountain.'    These 
are  our  nice  bits  and  relishes.     The  fiercest  of  the  giants,  Mprgante, 
plucks  up  pines  and  other  great  trees  by  the  roots,,  and  casts  them  on 
us."   While  they  were  talking  thus  in  the  cemetery,  there  came  a  stone, 
■^vh^ch  seemed  as  if  it  would  break  Ilonde'i's  back.  .  "  For  God's-sake, 
Cavalier,"  said  the  Abbot,  "  come. in,  for  the  manna  is  fiilling."  ^ "  i^'ly 
dear  Abbot,"  answered   Orlando,  "this  fellow,,  metliiiiks,  does  not 
wish  to  let  my  horse  feed  any  longer ;  he  wants  to  cure  him  of  beiilg 
restive;  the   stone  seems  as  if  it  eame   from  a  good  arm."    '"  Yes," 
replied  the,  holy  father,  "  I  did   not  deceive  you.    J  thihlt  some  da.y 
or  other  they  will  cast  the  mountain  itsielf  upon  us.''     Orlando  quieted 
his  horse  Rondel,  and  then  sat  down  to  a  meal ;   after  \yhich  he  said, 
."  Abbot,  I  must  go  and  return  the  present  that  lias  been  made  to  my 
.horse."     The  Abbot  with  great   tenderness  endeavoured   to  dissuade 
him,  but  in  vain^  upon  which  he  crossed  him  on  the  forehead,  and  said, 
*'  Go  then,  and  the  blessing-  of  God  be  upon  you."  ,       ,  ■  '  • 

Orlando  scaled  the  mountain,  and  came  where  Passamonte  was,  who 
seeing  him  alone,  measured  him  with  his  eyes  j  oundabout,'and  asked 
him  if  he  would  stay  with  him  for  a  page,  promising  to  make  him  very 
comfortable.  ''  Stupid  Saracen,"  said  Orlando,  "  I  come  to  you, 
according  to  the  will  of  God,  to  be  your  death,  and  not  your  foot-boy. 
You  have  displeased  his  servants  here,  and  are  no  longer  to  be  en- 
dured, you  mastiff." 

Nou  puo  j?iu  comporlarti,  can  tnaslino, 

The  giant  finding  himself  thus  insulted,  ran  in  a  fury  to  arm,  and 
returning  to  Orlando,  rAung  at  him  a  large  stone,  which  struck  him  on 


filE  INDICATOll.  ISl 

ihe  head  witli  such  foice,  as  not  only  made  his  helmet  rtt\g  again,  btit 
felled  hiirij  senseless  to  the  earth.  Passamonte  thought  life  was  &^ad. 
*' What,"  said  he,  retiring  to  disarm  himself,  "dduld '^fiVe  brdugfct 
tWat  paltry  feJ16w  here?"  !.  f  ;  •- 

."  feu t  Christ  never  forsakes  his  foUovpers.  WhFle  tH*|;i*nt.w<^tittl» 
disarm  himself,  Orlando  recovered,  and  cried  aloiid,  **  Oiahi,  V^hwfe 
are  you  going?  Do  you  think  that  you  have  killed'hie?  Turn  back, 
ifor.  uqless  you  have  wings,  you  shall  not  escape  ttie^  you  ck)g  ofli 
.renegade."  The  giant  greatly  marvelling,  turned  bdtik^  and  stoopttfg 
tp  pick  up  a  itbhe,  Orlando,  who  had  Cortana  naked  in  his  hand,  cleft 
his  skull ;  and,  cursing  Mahomet,  he  tumbled,  dying  and  blasphentlti^, 
tq  the  ground.  Blaspheming  fell  the  sour-hearted  and  cru^I  tvretch  ; 
b^t  Orlando,  in  ifhe  meanwhile,. thanked  the  Father  and  the  Word.  ' 
\/  The  Paiadin' went  on,  seeking  for  Alabastro,  the  secohd  giant'; 
Sylio,  when  he  saw  him,  endt'avoured  to  pluck  up  a  great  piece  oi  stttny 
'earth  by  the.  roots.  "  Ho,  ho  1"  cried  Orlando,  *'  what  you  thiiik  to 
throw  that  stone,  do  you  ?"  Then  Alabastro  took  his  sVing,  aiid  litiflg 
at  him  so  large  a  fragment  as  obliged  Orlando  to  defend  hitriSfelf,  fofr  (if 
it  had  struck  him,  he  Woaltl  no  more  have  needed  a  surgeon;  bttt  Col>- 
lecting.all  his5trength,  he  thrust  his  sword  into  the  giant's  bfedStj  and 
.the  loggerhead  fell  do-ad.  .  "i^' 

'  Morgante,  the  third  giant,  hid  a:  palacPj  ma^e  of  earthy-drtd  botighi^, 
and  shingles,  in  which  he  shut  himself  up  at  night  to  Vest. '  Orlando 
knocked,  and  disturbed  the  giant  from  his  sleep,  who  ca'me  staring  to 
the  door  like  a  mndman,  for  he  had  had  a  bewildering  dream.  '*  Wht> 
knocks  there?"  "You  will  know  too  soon,"  answered  OrlatJdo ; 
"  I  am  come  to  'fTiaUc  you  flo  penance  for  your  sins,  like  your  bro- 
thers. Divine  Piovldeiifce  has  sent  mo  to  avenge' Ihe  wrongs  »>f  the 
monks  upon  fhe  whole  set  of  j^oti  ;  and  I  have  to  tell  yo'ir,  that  Pass?l- 
monte  and  Alabastro  "are  already  as  cold  as  a  cdaple  of  pilasters." 
"  Noble  Knigllt,"  said  Mofgante,  "  do  me'  no  ilT;  but  if  you  are  a 
.Chriitian,  tell  me  in  crturtesy  vvho  you  are."  "1  will  satisfy  you  6f 
my  faith,"  replied  Orlando:  ''I  adore  Christ;  and,  if  yt)Q  pleiise, 
you  may  adore  him  also."  '  '      •     -.i'       ■    i 

'  ''  I, have  had  a  strhnge  vision,"  rrplied  M(lfg<lnfe,  iwifh  I'Vow' vkdifee^: 
"T  was  assailed  by  a  dreadful  serpent,  arrd  called  upon' ]Vfehofif»et  iu 
vain  ;  then  I  called  upon  your  God,  who  was  crucified,  atld-  he'snc- 
coured  me,  and  I  was  delivered  from  the  serpeiUj 'SO  Tiitn  disposed 
to  become  a  Christian."  '    '•'''■     '     • 

"Ifyoukeepin  this  mind,"  returned  Orlando,  '' yoii  shflill  ^vor- 
.ship  the  true  Grtd,  and  come  with  me  and  be  my  companiot*,  and  [ 
will  love  you  with  perfect  love.  Your  idols  are  false  and  vain;  the 
true  God  is  the  God  of  the  Christians.  Deny  the  unjust  and  villainous 
.worship  of  your  Mahomet,  and  bo  baptized  in  the  name  of  my  God, 
who  is  alone  worthy."  "I  am  contentj"  said  Morgante.  Then 
Orlando  embraced  him,  and  said,  "  I  will  lead  you  to  the  abbJey." 
"  Let  us  go  quickly,"  replied  Morgante,  for  he  was  impatient  to  make 
,his  peace  with  the  monks.  Orlando  rejoiced,  saying,  "  Mj  gfvod 
l)rother,  and  devout  withal,  you  must  ask  pardon  of  the  Abbot';  for  God 
has  enlightened  you,  and  accepted  you,  and  he  would  have  you  prac- 


182  THE  JNDICATO^r 

tice  humility.','  .^f  Yes,"  said  Morganto,  *'  thanks.tp  y<^u,  jour  Go4 
shall  henceforth  be  my  God.  Tfll  me  your  name,  anS  afterwacclj 
dispose  of  nie  as  you  will."     And  ho  told  him  that  he  was  Orlalidoy  H 

*••  Blessed  Jesus  be  thanked,"  said  the  giant,  *'  ff;r  1  harp  alwjiys 
^card  you  called  a  perfect  knight ;  and,  as  I  said^  1  will  follow^  ,^o[i 
.8:11  iny  life  tlftr-ough."  And  so  conversing  they  wont  together  towards 
,the  abbeyj  and  by  the  way  Orlando  talked  with  Mprgarito  of  the 
jdpad. giants.,  and  sought  to  console  him^  paying  they  had  done  the 
pnonks  a  thousand  injuries,  and  our  scripture  says  the  good  shall^be 
rewarded  and  the  evil  punished,  and  we  must  submif  to  the  will  of 
^Grpd.  "  The  dpctprs  of  our  church,"  continued  he,  "  are  all  agreed, 
•that  if  those  who  are  glorified  in  heaven,  were  to  have  compassipn  of 
their  miserable  kindred,  who  lie  in  such  horrible  confusion  in  h^ll, 
;their  beatitude  would  come  to  nothing;  and  this,  you  see,  would 
plainly,  be  unjust  on  the  part  of  God.  But  such  is  the  firmness,  of 
.their  faith,  that  what  appears  goo<i  to  him,  appears  good  to  them.  Do 
^what  he  may,  they  hold  it  to  be  done  well,  and  that  it  is  impossible. 
;for  him  to  err  ;  so  that  if  their  very  fathers  and  mothers  are  suffering 
.everlastiug  punishment;,  it  does  not  disturb  them  an  atom.  This  is  the 
custom.t  assure  you,  in  the  choirs  above." 

*'  A  word  to  the  wise,"  said  Morgante  ;  '^  you  shall  see  if  I  grieve 
for  mybrethren,  amd  whether  or  no  I  submit  to  the  will  of  God,  and 
behave  myself  like  an  angel.  So  dust  to  dust ;  and  now  let  us  enjoy 
ourselves.  I  will  cut  off  (heir  hands,  all  four  of  them,  and  take  them 
to  these  holy  monks^  that  they  may  be  sure  they  are  dead,  and  not 
fear  to  go  out  alone  into  ihe  desart.  They  will  then  be  sure,  also  that 
the  Lord  has  purified  mo,  and  taken  me  out  of  darkness,  and  assured 
to  me  the  kingdom  of  heaven."  So  saying,  the  giant  cut  off  the  bands^ 
.of  his  brethren,  and  left  their  bodies  to  the  beasts  and  birds  .         f  ..,,!, 

They  went  to  the  abbey,  where  the  Abbot  was  expecting  Orlando  in 
great  anxiety ;  but  the  monks  not  knowing  what  had  happened,  ran 
to  the  Abbot  in  great  haste  and  alarm,  saying,  "  Will  you  suffer  this 
giant  to  come  in  ?"  And  when  the  Abbot  saw  the  giant,  he  cltangod 
countenance.  Orlando  perceiving  him  thus  disturbed,  made  haste  and 
said,  "  Abbot,  peace  be  with  you.  The  giant  is  a  Christian;  he  be- 
lieves in  Christ,  and  has  renounced  his  false  prophet,  Mahomet."  And 
JVIorgante  shewing  the  hands  in  proof  of  his  faith,  the  Abbot  thanked 
heaven  with  great  contentment  of  mind. 

The  Abbot  did  much  honour  to  Morgante,  comparing  mm'wUh 
St.  Paul ;  and  tht^y  rested  there  many  days.  One  day  wandering  over 
the  abbey,  they  entered  a  room  where  the  Abbot  kept  a  quantity  of 
armour  ;  and  Morgante  saw  a  bow  which  pleased  him,  and  he  fastened 
it  on.  Now  there  was  in  the  place  a  groat  scarcity  of  water ;  and 
Orlando  said,  like  his  good  brother,  *'  Morgante,  I  wish  you  would 
fetch  us  some  water."  *•*  Command  me  as  you  please,"  said  he  ;  and 
placing  a  great  tub  upon  his  shoulders,  he  wont  towards  a  spring  at 
which  he  had  been  accustomed  to  drink,  at  the  foot  of  the  mountain. 
Having  reached  the  spring,  he  suddenly  heard  a  groat  noise  in  the 
forest.  IIo  took  an  arrow  from  the  quiver,  plac*^d  it  in  the  bow,  and 
raising  his  head,  saw  a  groat  herd  of  swiuo  rusliing  towards  the  spring 


THE  INDICATOR.  183 

where  he  stood.     Mor^ante  shot  one  of  them  clean  tlirough  the  head, 
and  laid    him   sprawling.      Another  as    if  in   revenge,  ran    towards 
the  giant,  without  giving  hira  time  to  use  another  arrow;  so  he  lent 
him  a  cuff  on  the  head,  which  broke  the  boae,  and  killed  him  also  j*; 
which  stroke  the  rest  seeing,  fled  in  haste  through  the  valley.     Mor«,- 
gante  then  placed  the  tub  full  of  water  upon  one  shoulder,  and  the  two 
porkers  on  the  other,  and  returned  to  the  abbey  which  was  at  some . 
distance,  without  spilling  a  drop. 

The  monks  were  delighted  to  see  the  fresh  water,  but  still  more  to 
see  the  pork  ;  for  there  is  no  animal  to  whom  food  comes  amiss.  They 
let  their  breviaries  therefore  go  to  sleep  awhile;  and  fell  heartily  to 
work,  so  that  the  cats  and  dogs  had  reason  to  lament  the  polish  of  the 
bones.  . . 

"  Now,  why  do  we  stay  here  doing  nothing  ?"  said  Orlando,  one 
day,  to  Morgante ;  and  he  shook  hands  with  the  Abbot,  and  told  him 
he  must  take  his  leave.  "  I  mast  go,"  said  he,  *'  and  make  up  for  lost 
time.  "  I  ought  to  have  gone  long  ago,  my  good  father,  but  I  cannot"^ 
tell  you  what  I  feel  within  me  at  the  content  I  have  enjoyed  here  in 
your  company.  I  shall  bear  in  mind  and  in  heart  with  me,  for  ever, 
the  Abbot,  the  abbey,  and  this  desart;  so  great  is  the  love  they  have 
i-aised  in  me  in  so'  short  a  time.  The  great  God  who  reigns  above 
must  thank  you  for  me  in  his  own  abode.  Bestow  on  us  your  bene- 
diction,  and  do  not  forget  us  in  your  prayers.'' 

When  the  Abbot  heard  County  Orlando  talk  thus,  his  heart  melted 
Avithin  him  for  sweet  tenderness,  and  he  said ;  "  Knight,  if  we  have 
failed  in  any  courtesy  due  to  your  prowess  and  great  gentleness,  (and 
indeed  what  we  have  done,  has  been  but  little)  pray  put  it  to  the  ac- 
count of  our  ignorance  and  to  the  place  which  we  inhabit.  We  are 
but  poor  men  of  the  cloister,  better  able  to  regale  you  with  masses, 
and  orisons,  and  paternosters,  than  with  dinners  and  suppers.  You 
have  so  taken  this  heart  of  mine  by  the  many  noble  qualities  I  hare 
seen  in  you,  that  I  shall  be  with  you  still  wliererer  you  go,  and  on  the. 
other  liand  you  will  always  be  present  here  with  me.  This  seems  a 
contradiction,  but  you  are  wise,  and  will  take  my  meaning  discreetly. 
You  have  saved  the  very  life  and  spirit  of  us  :  for  so  much  perturba> 
tion  had  those  giants  cast  about  our  place,  that  the  way  to  the  Lord. 
among  us  was  blocked  up.  May  he  who  sent  you  into  these  woods,, 
reward  your  justice  and  piety,  by  which  we  are  delivered  from  our 
trouble.  Thanks  be  to  him  and  to  you.  We  shall  all  be  disconsolate 
at  your  departure.  We  shall  grieve  that  we  cannot  detain  you  among;^ 
us  for  months  and  years;  but  you  do  not  wear  these  weeds;  you 
bear  arms  and  armour  ;  and  you  may  possibly  merit  as  well  in  carry- 
ing those,  as  in  wearing  this  cap.  You  read  your  Bible;  and  your 
virtue  has  been  the  means  of  shewing  the  giant  the  way  to  heaven. 
Go  in  peace  and  prosper,  whoever  you  may  be.  I  do  not  ask  your 
name,  but  if  ever  I  am  asked  who  it  was  th*t  came  among  us,  I  shall 
say  that  it  was  an  angel  from  God.  If  there  is  any  armour,, 
or  other  thing  that  you  would  have,  go  into  the  room  where  it  is,  and 
take  it."  "  If  you  have  any  armour  that  would  suit  my  companion '* 
replied  Orlando,  "  that  I  will  accept  with  pleasure."     "•  Come  and 


^^ 


THE  I^'OICATOIC 


sepj*'  iitld^  i\\o  Alihot:  and  (hoy, wont  into  a  room  \\^a.t  was  full  pf  ol(l    " 
atnibur/'^'IfrlTtfgdiiie'oxanii'iu'c!  every  tliiiig  but  could' find  nothinij  large' 
enough,  excfpfa  rusiy'breast'  pla'tf,  which  fitted  him  maivellously.     J(. 
Jiad  b('lon<,'(d  to  an   enormous  giaiit,   who  was  killed   (hereof  old  hv" 
JViiloneof  Aiigfanfe.     There   was  k  painting  on  the  wall  which  told 
the  whole  story,  how  the  giant  had  laid  crue]  and  long  siege  to  the 
abbey,  and  how  he  had  been  overthrown  at  last  by  the  great  MiioOe. 
Orlando,  seeTng  this'said,  within' hiiiiself;^ — "  Oh  God,  unto  whom  all 
thipgs  are  .known,  how  came  Milono  here,  who  destroyed  this  giant .'"  ' 
And  reading  certain  inscriptions  whjch  were  there,  he  could  tio  longier 
keep  a, firm  countenance,  but  the  tears  ran  down  his  cheeks. 

'  When  the  Abbot  saw  Orlando  weep,  and  his  brow  redden,  and  the 
light  of  his  eyes  become  child-like  witii  pity,  he  asked  him  the  reason  ; 
but  finding, hjm  still  .(lumbly  aflected,  he  continued,  ^'  I  do  not  know' 
whcllier  ypu   are   ovefpovvcred  by  admiration  of  what   is  painted  in 
this  , chamber.     You'  must' know,  that  I  am  of  high  descent,  though' 
not'  'tjirough  lawful    wedlock.     I   believe  I  "may  Say  L  am  nephew   or' 
sislei-'s  son  toi'so   bss  a  man  tban'  that  Rinaldo,  who  was  s6  great  a ' 
Faladiii    '\\\    (he  world  ;'  though   yny  own  father   Ua^  riO't  of  ti  lawful 
rrfotlie'r.    ^  An'suigi.'was  his   name  ;    tiiy' bwi),   out  in  the   world,.  Was 
Olnaramorite';  and' this:  Milone'was  my  father's  brother.  ;  Ah,  ge'ntle* 
bai'on,  for  blessed 'Jtsus's  sake,  feM  m'e  wjiat  .name  is'yblir's'!"    .'Of-' 
huidojatl  gl-owMrig'w'ith  a|Iectiori.  and'bafjVfd  In  teat-s;  replied  ;  *'  My' 
dtar,  Abjjqt  and.  kinsman",   lie  before  you  is  your  Orlando,"     t7.p'pn' 
this,  fbey 'tan  for  feiider'ness  into,  each- o theirs  avnis,  weeping  on   bpth 
sid'e's' wini 'a.  Sovereign  aiTecJion,  which  was  too   high  !o  b6  i'xpi;o5sedI'^ 
at'ouc^.     'I'J>t^  -'^'?'^9t  ^^'^s  so  overjoyed,,  that  he  seemed  as  if  he'\vould  ' 
never  liave  dgne'embraCi'.ig  Orlaiido.     "  By  what  fortune,'"  Xa id  the 

rfty  dear 


ive  llis' 

feelings  utteranci?.     '^  Mdny  and  diver-s  are' the  paths'he  points  out  for' 
ifSj.by  "vvhichf  to  "arrive  at  his  city.     Some  walk  it  with  thf  sword,  sbme' 
•vS'Hh  tbe'pastoirarstaffi     Nature  makes' th6  inclination  .diiFerent,   and,* 
therefore  there  are  differ^iif  ways  for  them  to  take';   enough  if  th^y  alt 
artive  siifefy;  at  one  and  the  same 'place,  the  last  a,s  v^'cll  as  the  first.' 
"We  are  all  pilgrims  through  mainy  kingdoms :  we  all  wish  to  go  to "^ 
R^ipe^  Orlando  ;  bi^t  vve  go, picking  ou,t  our  journey  through  different' 
roads.     Such  is  the  ti-ouble'to  body  ah.d  soiil  brought  upoiiug  by  that' 
sin  of  tlie  old  appli^.     it)ay  arid' night  am  T  here  with  my  book  in  hand ; 
day^nd  uight  do  you  rld,e  about,  holding,  your  sword,  and  sweating 
often  bothinisun  and  sljadow ;  and' all  to  get  round  at  last  t»  the; 
Kome  frpm  which  we  departed  t — 1  say,  all  out  of  anxiety  and  hope,  to 
get  bac^  unto  our  Home  pf  old^"     And  the  giant,  heatirig  them  talk  of 
these  thing^s,  felt  the  te'ars  also.  ' 

Printed a»id  published  by  Josp.ph  Ai>Pt;EYAiti>,  No.  19,  Catherine-street,  Strand. 
PriM  2d.f— And  sold  also  by  A.  GtioDojr,  Importer  of  Smiff9,,No.3l,  Tavisiork-, 
street,  Covent-garden.  Orders  received  at  ihe  above  places,  and  by  all  Book-, 
tellers  aud  Ne^»  scneot 


THE    INDICATOR. 

,  T(iere  he  arriving' round  about  doth  flie. 
And  takes  survey  with  busie  curious  eye : 
Now  this,  now  that,  he  tastetli  tenderly. 
^  SpKNSER* 


No.  LXXVL— WEDNESDAY,  MARCH  21st,  1821. 


PASSAGES   FROM    THE    OLD    DRAMATISTS/— THE   INDICATOR'S 
*'"*"*'**"      FAREWELL  TO  HIS  READERS. 

.A   TOUNG  OLD   AGE. 

Nicoletlo.  Old  ?  ^lem  !  all  heart  of  brass;  sound  as  a  bell ; 
Old?  Why,  I'll  tel!  your  graces;  I  have  gone 
But  half  the  brid'!;e  o*er  yet ;  there  lies  feeforetne 
As  mud)  as  T  have  pass'd,  and  I'll  go  it  alt. 

Florence.  Mad  Vanhi  slill ! 

Nic.  •'  Old  oak»  do  rtot  eastly  fall ; 

December's  cold 'hand  comlis  my  liead  and  beard^    '  \ 

But  May  swims  iti  my  blond  ;  an"d  he  that  walks ' 
Without  his  wooden  third  lep,' is  never  old.      "  ~  '  '  ''  '  /*  ' '"'• 

Pisa.  What  is  yo«t  age,  my  tot-d  ?         '  *  aia  x- ""-''■ '* 

Nic.  ...     ,   •   "  '  Age?  whatcaH^ijradifgs'^ 

,  I  baye^lived-sbrtife  haflf  aday,  *omehalf  an  lionr-         •'    • 
•       '  -^  MardotCsWond&rofaSin§dom*. 

PettewSWPrWEHfHEAV^i  ■;::;;::  n.:C/jS3 

He  that  does  gpod  deeds  here,  waits  at  a  tab^e 
Where  angels  are  his  fellow  servitoTS.^— Irf.  ' 

VARIETY  OF  BEAUTIES  PSODOCEQ  QT  TBB  $'4ME  CAUSE,  t 

•'        '  With  one  beam- ''^'  '      • 

*Phe  god  of  njetals  makes  both  gold  and  wiiiej — "IsL  ■'■'        •' 

».._,''.!  .      i       .  •  I    ::      .  ■     -i     ■    ,    , 

MARRIAGE  WITHOUT  SUFFICIENT' LOVE. 

She  that's  made  .sure  to  hi'm  she  loves  t\ot  wiell, 

Her  banns  are  asked  here,  but  she  weds  in  h^U.^liri.'  ", 

CHANGE  O*  toftTUKJIE.  ;  •  ^-  •    '    ^ 

Accursed' queen  of  chance!  wUat  had  vve  d9a<?. ,  ,  '  ;    ,   :      > 
Who  having  sometimes  like  young  Phaetons  j  ^ 

Rid  in  the  burnished  chariot  of  the  Sun,  . 

And  sometimes  been  thy  minions,  when  thy  fingers. 
Wea*ed  wanton  loye-nets  inourcnrled  hair,  , 

And  with  sweet  juggling  kisses  warnied  our  cneeks, 
Oh  I  .bow  Ikiv«  we  offended  thy  bright  eyes. 
That  thus  we  should  be  spurned  and  trod  upon, 
"Whilst  those  iiffected  limbs  of  the  sick  world. 
Are  fixed  by  thee  for  stars  in  that  bright  sphere, 
Wherein  our  sun-like  radiance  did  appear.' 

Deckers  Old  Fortmatui. 
Vol.  II. 


186  /fflE  INDICATOR. 


— ^Though  mine  arm  should  conquer  twenty  vforldv, 
'Hiere'i  a  lean  fellow  beats,  all  conquerors. — Jd. 

WORLDLY  BERATIOUR. 

I  am  not  ennmoured  of  this  painted  idol, 
This  strumpet  world ;  for  her  most  beauteous  looks 
Are  poison'd  baits,  hung  upon  golden  hooks. 
When  fools  do  swim  in  wealth,  her  Cynthiau  beams 
Will,  wantonly,  dance  on  the  silver  streams; 
But  when  this  squint-eyed  age  sees  virtue  poor, 
And  by  a  little  spark  sit  shivering. 
Begging  of  all,  relieved  at  no  man's  door. 
She  smiles  on  her,  as  the  sun  shines  on  fire. 
To  kill  that  little  heat ;  and  with  her  frown 
Is  proud,  that  she  can  tread  poor  virtue  down. 
Therefore  her  wrinkled  brow  makes  not  mine  soar: 
Her  gifts  are  toys,  and  I  deride  her  power. — Id. 

A   DBFEATED   PRINCE   IMAGINING   A  WAR   AGAINST   BI9   AFFLICTtONt. 

Wouldst  have  me  go  unarmed  among  my  foes  ? 
Being  besieged  by  passion,  enterfng  lists. 
To  combat  with  despair  and  mighty  grief; 
IWy  soul  beleagured  with  the  orushing  strength 
Of  sharp  impaiience !     Ah,  Lucio,  go  unarmed  ? 
Come,  soul ;  resume  the  valour  of  thy  birth : 
Myself,  myself,  will  dare  all  opposites  : 
I'll  muster  forces,  an  un vanquished  power; 
Cornets  of  horse  shall  press  the  ungrateful  earth  j 
This  hollow-wombed  mass  shall  inly  groan, 
And  murmur  to  sustain  the  weight  of  arms: 
Ghastly  amazement,  with  upstarted  hair, 
Shall  hurry  on  before,  and  osher  us. 
Whilst  trumpets  clamour  with  a  sound  of  death*  ,. 

Marstotis  jintonio  and MeUiia. 

CANDLE-LIGHT   ENVIED  ?0R  ITS   LITERARY' OPPORTUNITIES. 

■  A; 
Enter  Feliche,  walking  unbraced. 

Fel.  Castillo  if  Alberto?  Balardo?  none  up? 
Forobasco?  Flattery,  nor  thou  up  yet  ? 
Then  there's  no  courtier  stirring,  that's  firm  truth. 
1  cannot  sleep :  Feliche  seldom  rests 
In  these  court  lodgings.    I  have  walked  all  night 
To  see  if  the  nocturnal  court  delights 
Could  force  me  envy  their  felicity; 
And  by  plain  troth,  I  will  confess  plain  troth, — 
I  ejjivy  nothing  but  the  traverse-light. 
Cm  !  had  it  eyes,  and  ears,  and  tongues,  it  might 
See  sport,  hear  speech  of  most  strange  surquedries. 
Oh!  if  that  candle-light  were  made  a  poet, 
He  would  prove  a  rare  firking  satirist, 
And  draw  the  core  forth  of  imposthumed  sin. 
Well,  1  thank  heaven  yet,  that  my  content 
Can  envy  nothhig  but  poor  candle-light. — Xd. 

I  A   MALCONTENT  NO   SCCCEEDER  WITH  THE   LADIES. 

CasHlio.  Yon  ne'er  accosted  them  in  pomp, 
put  your  good  parts  in,  presence  graciously. 
Ha,  and  you  had,  why  they,  would  have  come  off,  sprung 
To  y<our  arms,  and  8ued,d,nd  prayed,  and  vowed} 
Ann  opened  all  their  Sweetness  to  your  love. 


THE  INDICATOR.  187 

Feliche.  There  nre  a  number  of  such  things  «s  thou 
Have  often  urged  me  to  such  loose  belief; 
But  'slid,  you  all  do  lie,  you  all  do  lie. 
t  have  put  on  good  clolhes,  and  smugged  my  face^ 
Slrook  a  fair  wench  with  a  smart  speaking  eye. 
Courted  in  all  sorts  blunt  and  passionate, 
Had  opportuniiy,  put  tliem  to  the  Ah ! 
And  by  this  light  1  find  them  wondrous  chasle, 
Impregnable:  perchance  a  kiss  or  so, 
But  for  the  rest,  oh,  most  inexorable. — Id, 

A  loter'c  abeencb  of  mind,  and  forcible  separation  from  ars  mis-crbss,  LElve 

HIM  YET  A  CERTAIN  TASTE  OF  SWEETNESS. 

As  having  clasped  a  rose 
Within  my  palm,  the  rose  being  ta'en  away. 
My  hand  retains  a  little  breath  of  sweet; 
So  may  man's  trunk,  his  spirit  slipped  away. 
Hold  still  a  faint  perfume  of  his  sweet  guest.— J<f. 

LOVK  OUT  OF  SORTS  WITH  THE  SEA80V. 

Jacomo.  Yon  gleam  is  day :  darkness,  and  sleep,  and  fear, 
Dreams,  and  the  ugly  visions  of  the  night. 
Are  beat  to  hell  by  the  bright  palm  of  light. 
Now  roams  the  swain,  and  whistles  up  the  morn; 
Deep  silence  breaks  ;  all  things  start  up  with  light> — 
Only  my  h«art ;  that  endless  night  and  day 
Lies  bed-rid,  crippled  by  coy  Celia. 

Quadralus.  There's  a  strain,  law  ! 
Nay,  now  1  see  he's  mad  most  palpable, 
He  speaks  like  a  player,  ah  !  poetical. 

Jac.  The  wanton  spring  lies  dallying  with  the  ^arti). 
And  pours  fresh  blood  in  her  decayed  veins. 
Look,  how  the  new  sapped  branches  are  in  child 
With  tender  infants,  how  the  sun  draws  out. 
And  shapes  their  moisture  into  thousand  forms 
Of  sprouting  buds.     All  things,  that  show  or  breathe* 
Are  now  instaured,  saving  my  wretched  breast. 

MarstotCs  What  You  Witt. 

THE  METAPHYSICIAN   AND   HIS  SPAWIEC. 

Delight  my  spaniel  slept,  while  I  baus'd  leaves, 
Tossed  o'er  the  dunces,  pored  on  the  old  print 
Of  titled  words,  and  still  my  spaniel  slept.; 
Whilst  I  wasted  my  lamp-oil,  'bated  my  flesh. 
Shrunk  up  my  veins,  and  still  my  spaniel  slept. 
And  still  I  held  converse  with  Zabarell, 
Aquinas,  Scolus,  and  the  musty  saw 
Of  antic  Donate,  still  my  spaniel  slept. 
Still  on  went  I,  first  an  sit  anima. 
Then  an  'iwere  mortal ; — oh,  hold,  hold,  at  that 
They're  at  brain-buffets,  fell  by  the  ears  amain, 
Pell-mell  together;    still  my  spaniel  slept. 
Then  whether  'twere  corporeal,  local,  fixed. 
Ex  traduce,  but  whether  it  had  free  will 
Or  no, — — O  philosophers 

Stood  banding  factions,  all  so  strongly  propped, 
1  staggered,  knew  not  which  was  firmer  part, 
But  thought,  quoted,  reHd,  observed,  and  pried, 
Stufied  noting  books,  and  still  my  spaniel  slept. 
At  length  he  waked,  and  yawned  ;  and  by  yon  sky, 
For  aug-lit  1  know,  W  knew  as  much  as  I.— Id. 


1S9  THE  INDICATOR. 


Doth  fall  on  kings 
As  soft  and  soou  as  their  first  holy  oil. 

Marston's  Parasilaster. 

rtATTERY,   AND   SATIRE   UNDER  THE   MASK    OF   IT. 

Gonzago  (the  Duke).  Cdunt  GranufFo,  as  I  live  this  Faunns  is  a  rare  iinder=lan<]pr 
of  men,  is  a  not?  Faunus,  this  GranufFo  is  a  right  wise  good  lord  ;  a  maw  of  cxcfl- 
lent  discourse,  and  never  speaks.  His  signs  to  me,  and  men  of  profound  reacii,  in- 
struct abundantly.  He  begs  suits  with  si«ns,  gives  liianks  with  siiins,  puts  off  his 
belt  leisurely,  maintains  his  beard  learnedly,  keeps  his  last  privately,  makes  a  tiod^ 
ding  leg  courtly^  and  lives  happily. 

Hercules.  Silence  is  an  excellent  modest  grace,  but  especially  before  so  instructing 
a  wisdom  as  your  Excellency's.  As  for  bis  advancement,  you  gave  it  most  royally, 
because  he  deserves  it  least  duly  ;  since  to  give  to  virtuous  desert  is  rather  a  due 
requital  than  a  princely  magnificence,  when  to  undeservingness  it  is  merely  all 
bounty  and  free  grace.— /d. 

WOMAN. 

Tiberio.  Oh  Fawn,  what  mqn  of  so  coUl  wit 
But  must  love  such  a  wit  in  such  a  body  ? 
Thou  last  and  only  rareness  of  heaven's  works, 
From  best  of  man  made  model  of  the  gods, 
Divinest  woman  !  thou  perfection 
Of  all  proportion,  made  when  Jove  was  blithe, 
Well  filled  with  nectar,  and  full  friends  with  man, 
Thou  dear  as  air,  necessary  as  sleep, 
To  careful  man, — oh,  who  can  sin  so  deeply. 
As  to  be  cursed  from  knowing  of  the  pleasures,  ' 

Thy  soft  society,  modest  amorousness,  ; 

Yields  to  our  tedious  life  ? — Id. 

MODERN    WIT  MATRIMONIAL. 

Zuccolo.  I  know  if,  I  confess.  AH  (his  I  did,  and  I  do  glory  in  i(  ;t— Why  ?  Canno* 
a  young  lady  for  many  months  keep  honest  ?  No.  I  misthought  it.  My  wife  li»r| 
wit,  beauty,  health,  good  birth,  fair  clothes,  and  a  passing  body;  »  bdy  of  rHre 
discourse,  quick  eye,  sweet  language,  alluring  behaviour,  and  exquisite  enterlsiin- 
ment.  I  misthooght  it;  I  feared,  I  doubted,  and  at  the  last  1  found  ii  out.  I  praise 
-nty  wit;  I  knew  I  was  a  cuckold. 

Hercules.  An  excellent  wit. 

Zuc.  True,  Fawn.  You  shall  read  of  few  dunces  that  have  had.  such  a  wit,  I  can 
tell  you;  and  I  found  it  out,  and  1  was  a  cuckold. 

Herp.  Which  now  you  have  found,  you  will  not  be  such  an  ass  as  CaE<ar,  Great 
Pompey,  Locullus,  Anthony,  or  Cato,  and  divers  other  Romans,  cuckolds;  who 
all  knew  it,  and  yet  were  ne'er  divorced  upon't  :  or  like  that  god-smith  Vulcan, 
who  having  lalcen  his  wife,  yet  was  presently  appeased,  and  entreated  to  make  an 
armour  for  a  husband  of  hers. 

Zuc.  No ;  the  Romans  were  asses,  and  thought  that  a  woman  might  mix  her  thigh 
wantonly  with  a  stranger,  and  yet  still  love  her  ImsbaiKl  mairi-ncnialiy. 

Here.  As  indeed  they  say,  a  many  married  men  lye  sometimes  with  strange 
women,  whom,  but  for  the  instant  use,  they  abhor. 

Zuc.  And  as  for  Vulcan,  twas  Immanity  more  than  human.  Such  excess  of  good- 
ness, for  roy  part,  shall  belong  only  to  the  gods. — Id. 

FOLLY   AND   WORSE   FOLLY. 

Montsurry.  No  question  we  shall  see  them  imitate> 
•  Though  afar  off,  the  fashions  of  our  courts, 

As  they  have  ever  aped  us  in  attire. 
Never  were  men  so  weary  of  their  skins, 
And  apt  to  leap  out  of  tlu^mseives  as  they  ; 
Who  wiien  they  travel  to  bring  forth  rare  men, 
Come  home  delivered  of  a  fine  Freucli  suit. 


THE  INDICATOR,  ]«d 

Their  brains  lie  wilh  their  tailors;,  and  get  babies 
For  their  most  complete  issue.     He's  sole  heir 
To  all  the  moral  virtues,  that  first  greets 
The  light  with  a  new  fashion  ;  which  becomes  them, 
Like  apes  disfigured  with  the  attires  of  men. 

K.  Henry.  No  question  they  much  wre«g  their  real  worth 
In  afi«cialion  of  outlandish  scum; 

But  tliey  have  faults,  and  we  more ;  they  foolish  proud, 
To  jet  in  others'  plumes  so  haughtily; 
We  proud,  that  they  are  proud  of  foolery. 
Holding  our  worth  more  complete  for  their  vaunts. 

Chapman's  Bussy  JTAmboii. 

A  soldier's  fall. 

—  As  in  Arden  I  have  seen  an  oak 

Long  shook  with  tempests,  and  his  lofty  top 

Bent  to  his  root,  which  being  at  lenglh  made  loose, 

Ev'n  groaning  with  his  weight,  he  'gan  to  nod 

'I'his  way  and  that,  as  loath  his  curled  brows, 

Which  he  had  oft  wrapped  in  the  sky  with  storms. 

Should  stoop,  and  yet  his  radical  fibres  burst, 

Slorm-like  he  fell,  and  hid  the  fear-cold  earth  :^ 

So  fell  stout  Barrisor,  that  had  stood  the  shocks 

Often  set  battles  in  your  Highness'  wnr 

'Gainst  the  sole  Soldier  of  tlie  world,  Navarre.—  Id, 

A    SPARKLING   PORTRAIT.  ' 

Gilbert.  What  said  you.  Grime? 

Grime.  1  say.  Sir  Gilbert,  looking  on  ray  daughter, 
1  curse  the  hour  that  ere  I  got  the  girl: 
For,  sir,  she  m»y  have  many  wealthy  suitors. 
And  yet  she  disdains  them  ail,  to  have 
Poor  George  a  Greene  unto  her  husband. 

Botifield.  On  that,  'ood  Grime, I'm  talking  to  your  daughter ; 
But'she,  in  quirks  and  qoieldities  of  love 
Sets  me  tb  school,  she  is  so  overwise. 
But,  gentle  girl,  if  ihou'lt  forsake  this  Pinner 
And  be  my  love,  I  will  advance  thee  high. 
To  dignify  those  hairs  of  amber  hue, 
I'll  grace  them  witb  a  chaplet  made  of  pearl. 
Set  with  choice  rubies,  sparks,  and  diamonds,  planted 
Upon  a  velvet  hood,  to  hide  that  head. 
Wherein  two  sapphires  burn  like  sparkling  fire. 
This  will  1  do,  fair  Bettris,  and  far  more. 
If  thou  wilt  love  the  lord  of  Doncasier. 

Bettris.  Heigh  ho  !  my  heart  is  in  a  hi<;her  placp.   , 

George  a  Greene,  or  the  Pinner  of  fVakeJield.—Atumymaiu. 

A    i^OOL  IN   PROSPECT. 

Jsa&e?{a.  Good  father! 

Fabrilio.  Tell  not  me  of  tongues  and  rumours. 

You'll  say  the  gentleman  is  somewhat  simple; 

The  better  for  a  husband,  were  you  wise:  *. 

For  those  that  marry  fools,  live  ladies'  lives. 
On  with  the  mask  !  I'll  hear  no  more  :  lie's  rich  : 
The  fool's  hid. under  bushels, 

Livia.  Not  so  hid  neither, 

But  here's  a  foul  great  piece  of  him  methinks; 
What  will  he  be,  when  he  comes  Bliojrciher  ? 

Micldtetons  Women  Bcnare  Women.     ' 


iSO  THE  INDICATOR. 

LOTB  SHOULD  If^T  BE   tACBRTJWOSE. 

Faitb,  daughter,  you're  to  blame.     You  lake  the  courw 
To  make  him  an  ill  husband  ;  troth  you  do ; 
And  thnt  disease  is  catching,  I  can  tell  you, 
Ay,  and  soon  taken  by  a  young  man's  blood. 
And  that  with  little  urging.     Nay  fie,  see  now; 
■What  cause  have  you  to  weep  ?  would  I'd  no  more, 
That  liave  lived  threescore  years  !  there  were  ix  cause. 
And  'twere  well  tliought  on.    Trust  me  you're  to  blame  : 
His  absence  cannot  last  five  days  at  utmost. 
Whv  should  those  tears  be  fetch'd  forth  !  cannot  loT« 
'  Be  e'en  as  well  expressed  in  a  good  look, 

But  it  must  see  her  face  still  in  a  fountain? 
It  shews  like  a  country  maid  dressing  her  head 
By  a  dislj  of  water. — Id. 

VANrry. 

Mother.  How  like  you  it,  daughter? 

Bianca.  'Tis  a  noble  state! 

Methinks  my  soul  could  dwell  upon  the  reverence 
Of  such  a  solemn  and  most  worthy  custom. 
Did  not  the  Duke  look  up  ?  methought  he  saw  us. 

Mother.  That's  every  one's  conceit  that  sees  a  Duke. 
If  he  look  stedfastly,  he  looks  straight  at  them; 
When  he,  perhaps,  good  careful  gentleman^ 
riever  minds  any ;  but  the  look  he  casta 
Is  at  his  own  intentions,  and  his  object 
Only  the  public  good^ — Id. 

MAKING   UP. 

Isabella.  Prithee  forgive  me  ;  . 

1  did  but  chide  in  jest':  the  best  loves  use  It 
Sorpetimes :  it  sets  an  edge  npon  aifection. 
When  we  invite  our  best  friends  to  a  feast, 
*Tis  not  all  sweetness  that  we  set  before  thfem; 
There's  somewhat  sharp  and  salt,  both  to  whet  appetite. 
And  make  'em  taste  their  wine  well :  so,  metiiinks, 
After  a  friendly,  sharp,  and  savorv  chiding, 
A  kiss  tastes  wondrous  well,  and  full  o'  the  grape : 
How  thinkst  thou  ?  does  it  not  ?     (Kisses  him.) — Id. 

A   SWEET  VOICE   ILL   APPRECIATED. 

Methinks  now  such  a  voice  to  such  a  husband. 
Is  like  a  jewel  of  unvalued  worth 
Hung  at  a  fool's  ear. — Id. 

AN   UNLAWFUL  LOTER  OBLIGED  TO   COMMEND   HIS   MISTRESS   TO   A   BRIDEGJtOOM. 

I  have  a  strange  oflSce  en't  here  ; 
Tis  some  man's  luck  to  keep  the  joys  he  likes 
Concealed  for  his  own  bosom;  but  my  fortune 
To  set  'em  out  for  another's  liking; 
Like  the  mad  misery  of  necessitous  man. 
That  parts  from  his  good  horse  with  many  praises. 
And  goes  on  fool  himself. — Id. 

A   BUSBAND  SCORNED   BT   A  WIFE  WHO   HAS  LEFT  HIM  TO   LITE   WITH  A   PRINCE. 

With  what  a  cruel  pride 
The  glory  6f  Uer  sin  strikes  bye  my  afflictions  I— Id. 

HIS   FEELINGS  AT  HER   DESERTION   OF  HIM. 

Hnst  thou  left  me  then,  Bianca,  utterly  ? 
Ob,  DiancM  I  now  1  miss  thee  :    Oh  !  relurii. 


THE  INDICATOR.  191 

And  cave  ihe  faith  of  woman.     I  ne'er  felt 

The  loss  of  thee  till  now,    Tis  an  afSiclion 

Of  greater  weight  than  youili  was  made  to  bear; 

A«  if  a  punishment  of  after-life 

Were  fall'n  upon  man  here:  so  new  it  is 

To  flesh  and  blood  ;  bo  strange,  so  insupportable: 

A  torment  e'en  mistook,  as  if  a  body 

Whose  death  were  drowning,  must  needs  therefore  sufler  it 

In  scalding  oil. 

Livia.  Sweet  sir! 

Leantio  (without  noticing  her).  As  long  as  mine  eye  law  thee^ 
I  half  enjoyed  thee. 

Lie.  Sir! 

Lean,  (without  noticing  her.)  Canst  thou  forget 
The  dear  pains  my  love  took?     How  it  has  watched 
Whole  nights  together  in  all  weathers  for  thee. 
Yet  stood  in  heart  more  merry  than  the  tempest 
That  sung  about  mine  ears,  like  dangerous  flatterers. 
That  can  set  all  their  mischief  to  sweet  tunes; 
And  then  received  thee  from  thy  father's  window 
Into  these  arms  at  midnight;  when  we  embraced 
As  if  we  had  been  statues  only  made  for  it 
To  shew  art's  life,  so  silent  were  our  comforts, 
Aud  kissed  as  if  our  lips  had  grown  together. — Id, 

ORTBODOXT. 

Cromwell.  My  lord,  yet  grant  one  suit  unto  us  all; 
That  this  same  ancient  serving  maa  may  wait 
Upon  my  lord  his  master,  in  the  Tower. 

Rochester.  This  old  iniquity,  this  heretic. 
That  in  contempt  of  our  church  discipline 
Compelled  my  sumner  to  devour  his  process  ! 
Old  ruffian  past-grace,  upstart  schismatic. 
Had  not  the  King  prayed  us  to  pardon  you, 
^  '  You  had  fryed  for  t,  you  grizzled  heretic.  ' 

*  Warpoo?.  'Sblood,  my  lord  bishop,  you   wrong   me.     I  am.  neither    heretic '  ner 
|)Hritai,i,  but  of  the  old   church.     I'll  swear,  drink  ale,  kiss  a  wench,  go  to  mass, 
cat  fish  all  Lent,  and  fast  Fridays  with  cakes  and  wine,  fruit   an«l    spicery  ;  shrive 
ra^  pf  BJy  sins  afbre  Easter,  and  begin  new  before  Whitsuntide. 
"  •*  Crom.  A  merry  mad-conceited  knave,  my  lord. 

Har.  That  knave  was  simply  put  upon  the  bishop. 
Roch.  Welt,  God  forgive  him,  and  I  pardon  him: 
Let  him  attend  hismaster  in  the  Tower, 
For  I  ia  charity  wish  his  soul  no  hurt. 

Sir  John  Oldcastlc — Anonymous, 


THE  INDICATOR'S  FAREWELL. 

It  was  the  Editor's  intention  io  reserve  the  above  passages  and  other 
extracts  for  the  purpose  mentioned  a  few  weeks  ago,  that  of  iilliag  up 
his  paper  when  matter  was  wanting  ;  but  a  premature  return  to  his 
work  in  general,  has  brought  on  such  a  return  of  his  illness,  as  com- 
pels him,  with  great  reluctance,  to  give  up  the  paper  itself ;  and  here, 
accordingly,  the  Indicator  takes  leave  of  his  readers.  He  is  still  re- 
covering ;  but  so  slowly,  and  with  so  much  necessity  to  be  careful,  that 
it  would  be  weakness  in  him  to  keep  hovering  in  this  manner  Qver  a 


J9«  mS  |NDi(?ATOR. 

fa  sli  which  hp  cannot  pro|itrly  porsijp.  Hp  must  complefefhe  repose 
wliich  was  already  doing  him  so  much  good :  but  he  takes  it  only  iu 
the  hope  of  being  able  to  renew  his  labours,  if  not'  m  this  shape,  in 
others. — Pleasures  he  should; rathpr  call  them,  for  they  are  so  even 
when  pains  and  harms.  Xhe  truth  is,  his  pains  have  been  so  literally 
his  pleasures,  that  although  he  has  not  written  half  what  he  reasonably 
might,  nor  attended  a  twentieth  part  as  he  ought  to  dispatch  and 
punctuality,  yet  he  has  not  put  enough-  of  his  own  rural  doctrines  in 
practice*  He  has.safl*e»eel  his  imagination  to  take  too  roaiiy  walks  for 
him  instead  of  hislegs;  has  made  book-journies  about  Vaucl use  and 
Hymettus,  to  the  neglect  of  his  much-injured  suburbs  ;  aiid  instead  of 
a  do2en  retreats  or  so  at  intervals,  which  might  have  saved  him  the 
necessity  of  making  these  effeminate  excuses,  has  now  to  keep  a  ho- 
liday of  unwilling  length  and  very  equivocal  pleasure.— Upon  casting 
his  eye  back  upon  the  numbers,  of  the  Indicator^  he  has  little  to  say- 
but  to  thank  his  readers,  his  correspondents,  hrs  defenders,  his  users, 
■who  were  always  welcome  when  they  were  not  afraid  of  being  so,  and 
his  abusers,  who  in  some  instances  have  also  thought  fit  to  be  his  imi- 
tators. \Vha:t  he  Jias  written  at  any  time,  was  at  least  w.ritten  sin- 
cerely. He  has  generally  had  to  perform  his  task  without  books,  oftea 
■with  little  comfort  but  the  performance,  iriways  in  the  midst  of  a  strog^le 
of  some  sort;  but  if 'thFe 'mention  of  ihis'is'atfit/ltyfts.llreil  asanez* 
cuse,  it  may  serve  alsdto  shew  how  much  the  coltfvafion  of  a  oataral 
chearfulness  can  do  for  the  entertainmeVit  ftf  Itself  Arid  others^  and  what 
riches  there  must  be  in  that  ordinary  w,o rid  about  us,  v^jiotie  veriest 
twigs  and  common-places  want  "but  the  look  of  one's  ©wb  >eye  to  act 
upon  them  as  a  sunshine;  If  the  Indiedior  ha^  foiitid  som^  honey  ia 
places  more  barren  than  was  expected^  it  is  surely  neitHer  hi^  fault  nor 
tiieirs;  ubr  will  h«  iitiike  an  apology  for  wfiat  is  pechaps^at  last,^^is 
only  tri6frit;  To  use  a  phrase  of  Gowley's,  it  would  be  wry  ^^'unbiTdly'f 

bfhim;-     ••  •  ;  .  v;:';:. i:,    :;■■.,''•:'",!,: ;''^''' 

And  now,  returning  to  his  ovyn.  slUp©^^  again,  though Vetahjing  hli 
birdly  propensities,  he  sitakes  hands  at  parting  with  all  his  reaiders 
male,  and  gives  a:  kiss  on  the  cheek, — nonsense  l--on  the  mouth,  to  all 
his  fair  readers,  vvho  have  eVer  had  faith  in  the  ^ood  intentioTis  of 

I.E1GH  Hunt. 


TO  CORRESPONDENTS. 

The  Editor  need  not  sxoHse  himself -on  this  .occasion  tq  the  various  Correspon* 
dents  wliose  commuiii<'atloii9  he  intended  to  notice}  but  he  is  very  sorry  to  part 
witit  some  of  ttiena.-»-Will  A.  A. -1)6  j!oud  enougli  to  mention  sojHe-plaee  to  wlii^h  & 
few  books  can  be  sent  her  by  and  bvi  ■ 

•;''■■  ■'  • » 


Prinled  and  published  by  Joseph  A?pleyard,  No.  19,  Catherine-street,  Strand. 
Frio*  2d.— And  sold  also  by  A.  CJliddon,  Impprter  of.  Snuffs.  No.'SI',  Tayistdck- 
street,  Covent-<fnrden.    Orders  received  at  (he  above  ptece^  m\d' by_  all 'B«©k^ 

>   tcrUer»and  Newsmeu.  ■'..',...    it 


3G 


.■■X,?*" 


