There he arriving round about dotb flie^ And takes survey with busie, curious eye: Now this, now that, he tasteth tenderly. 
Spenser. 

No. XIII.— WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 5th, 1820. 

THIEVES, ANCIENT AND MODERN. 
CONCLUDED FROM LAST WEEK. 
We must return a moment to the Italian thieves, to relate a cou- ple of stories related of Ariosto and Tasso. The former was for a short period governor of Grafagnana, a disturbed district in the Apennines, which his prudent and gentle policy brought back from it's disaffection. Among it's other troubles, were numerous bands of robbers, two of the names of whose leaders, Domenico Maroco, and Filippo Pacchione, have come down to posterity. Ariosto, during the first days of his government, was riding out with a small retinue, when he had to pass through a number of suspicious-looking armed -men. The two parties had scarcely cleared each other, when the chief of the strangers aske4' a servant who happened to be at some distance behind the others j who that person was. " It is the cap- tain of the citadel here," said the man, " Lodovico Ariosto." The stranger no sooner heard the name, than he went running back to overtake the governor, wlio, stopping his horse, waited with some anxiety for the event. "^ I beg your pardon, Sir," said he, '' but I was not aware that so great a person as the Signor Lodbvico Ariosto was passing near me. My name is Filippo PaCchione ; and when I knew who it was, I could not go on witliout returning to pay the respect due to so illustrious a name." - 
A doubt is thrown on this story, or rather on the particular person who gave occasion to it, by the similarity of an adven- ture related of Tasso. Both of them however are very probable, let the similarity be what it may; for both the poets had occasion to go through disturbed districts; robbers abounded in both their times; and the leaders being most probably men rather of desperate fortunes than want of knowledge, were likely enough to seize such opportunities of vindicating their better habits, and shewing a ro- mantic politeness. The enthusiasm too is quite in keeping with the national character ; and it is to be observed that the particulars of Tasso's adventnre are different, though the spirit of it is the same. He was journeying, it is said, in company with others, for better security against the banditti who infested the borders of the 

98 " 
papal territory, when they were told that Sciarra, a famous robber, was at hand in considerable force.- Tasso was for pushing on, and defending themselves if attacked j but his opinion was overruled j and the company threw themselves, for safety, into the city of Mola. Here Sciarra kept them in a manner blocked up j but hearing that Tasso was among the travellers, he sent him word that he should not only be allowed to pass, but should have safe conduct whitherso- ever he pleased. The lofty poet, making it a matter of delicacy perhaps to waive an advantage of which his company could not par- take, declined the offer, upon which Sciarra sent another message, saying that upon the sole account of Tasso, the ways should be left open. And they were so. 
We can call to mind no particular German thieves, except those who figure in romances, and in the Robbers of Schiller. To say the truth, we are writing just now with but few books to refer to ; and the better informed reader must pardon any deficiences he meets with in these egregious and furtive memorandums. Of the Robbers of Schiller, an extraordinary effect is related. It is said to have driven a number of wild-headed young Germans upon playing at banditti, not in the bounds of a school or university, but seriously in a forest. The matter-of-fact spirit in which a German sets about being enthu- siastic, is a metaphysical curiosity which modern events render doubly interesting. It is extremely worthy of the attention of those rare personages, entitled reflecting politicians. But we must take care again. It is very inhuman of these politics, that the habit of attending to them, though with the greatest good-will and sincerity, will always be driving a man upon thinking how his fellow- creatures are going on. 
There is a pleasant well-known story of a Prussian thief and Frede- rick the Second. [The mention, by the way, of these two personages together puts us in mind of the Scottish answer to travellers about a mile and a bittock, — the said bittock, or little bit, being perhaps three or four miles in addition. 
Reader. There, Mr. Indicator, you get upon politics again. 
Indie. What, Sir j upon modern politics ? 
Read. I think so. 
Indie. But I cannot help it, you know, if past history applies to present events ; or at least, if your wicked imagination makes it apply. 
Read. Oh, ho : you have me there. 
Indie. I trust you have me every where.] 
We forget what was the precise valuable found upon the Prussian soldier, and missed from an image of the Virgin Mary ; but we be- lieve it was a ring. He was tried for sacrilege, and the case appeared clear against him, when he puzzled his Catholic judges by inform- ing them, that the fact was, the Virgin Mary had given him that ring. Here was a terrible dileiTima. To dispute the possibility or even probability of a gift from the Virgin Mary, was to deny their religion : while, on the other hand, to let the fellow escape on the pretence/ Was to ciinonize impudence itself. The worthy judges, in 

 99 
their perplexity, applied to the king, who under the guise of behav- ing delicately to their faith, was not sorry to have such an oppor- tunity of joking it. His majesty therefore pronounced, with be- coming gravity, that the allegation of the soldier could not but have it's due weight with all Catholic believers ; but that in future, it was forbidden any Prussian subject, military or civil, to accept a present from the Virgin Mary. 
The district, formerly rendered famous by the exploits of Scander- beg. Prince of Epirus, and now become infamous by the tyranny of Ali Bey, has been very fertile in robbers. And no wonder, for a- serrji-barbarous people so governed become thieves by necessity. The name indeed, as well as profession, is in such good receipt with an Albanian, that according to late travellers, it is a common Ihing for 
him to begin a story by saying, " When I was a robber " We 
remember reading of some Albanian or Sclavonian leader of banditti, who made his enemies suppose he had a numerous force with hinij by distributing military caps upon the hedges. 
There are some other nations who are all thieves, more or less ; or comprise such numbers of them as very much militate against the national character. Such are the piratical Malays ; the still more infamous Algeriiies; the m.ongrel tribes between Arabia and Abyssinia. As to the Arabs, they have a prescriptive right, from tradition as well as local circumstances, to plunder every body. The sanguinary ruffians of Ashantee and other black empires on the coast of Guinea are more like a government of murderers and ogres, than thieves. They are the next ruffians perhaps in existence, to slave- dealers. The gentlest nation of pilferers are the Otaheiteans ; and something is to be said for their irresistible love of hatchets and old nails. Let the European trader, that is without sin cast the first paragraph at them. Let him think what he should feel inclined to do, were a ship of some unknown nation to come upon his coast, with gold and jewels lying scattered about the deck. For no less precious is iron to the South Sea Islander. A Paradisaical state of existence would be, to him, not the Golden, but the Iron Age. An Otaheitean Jupiter would visit his Danae in a shower of tenpenny nails. 
We are now come to a very multitudinous set of candidates for the halter, the thieves of our own beloved country. For what we know of the French thieves is connected with them, excepting Car- touche ; and we remember nothing of him, but that he was a great ruffian, and died upon that worse ruffian, the rack. 
There is, to be sure, a very eminent instance of a single theft in the Confessions of Rousseau ; and it is the second greatest blot in his book ; for he suffered a girl to be charged with and punished for the theft, and maintained the lie to her face, though she was his friend, and appealed to him with tears. But it may be said for him, at any rate, that the world woidd not have known the story but for him- self: and if such a disclosure be regarded by some as an additional offence (which it may be thought by some very delicate as well as dishonest people), we must recollect, that it was the object of his book to give a plain unsophisticated account of a human being's ex- 

100 
periences ; and that many persons of excellent repute would have been found to have committed actions as bad, had they given accounts of themselves as candid. Dr. Johnson vv'as of opinion that all chil- dren were thieves and liars : and somebody, we believe a Scotchman, answered a fond speech about human nature, by exclaiming, that " human nature was a rogue and a vagabond, or so many laws would not have been necessary to restrain it." We venture to differ, on this occasion, with both Englishman and Scotchman. Laws in particular, taking the bad with the good, are quite as likely to have made rogues, as restrained them. But we see, at any rate, what has been sus- pected of more orthodox persons than Rousseau ; to say nothing of less charitable advantages which might be taken of such opinions. He committed a petty theft ; and miserably did his false siiame, the pa- rent of so many crimes, make him act. But he won back to their infants' lips the bosoms of thousands of mothers. He restored to their bereaved and helpless owners thousands of those fountains of health and joy : and before he is abused, even for worse things than the theft, let those whose virtue consists in custom, think of this. 
As we Ixave mixed fictitious with real thieves in this article, in a manner, we fear, somewhat uncritical (and yet the fictions are most likely founded on fact ; and the life of a real thief is a kind of dream and romance) we will dispatch our fictitious English thieves before we come to the others. And we must make shorter work of it than we intended, or we shall never come to our friend Du Vail. The length to which this article Iras stretched out, week after week, will be a warning to us, how we render our paper liable to be run away with in future. 
There is a very fine story of Three Thieves in Chaucer, which we must tell at large another time. The most prominent of the fabu- lous thieves in England is that bellipotent and immeasurable wag, Falstaff. If for a momentary freak, he thought it villainous to steal, at the next moment he thought it villainous not to steal. 
" Hal, I pr'ythee, trouVjle me no more with vanity. T would to God thou and I knew where a commodity of good names were to be bought. An old lord of the council rated me the other day in the street, about you. Sir 3 but I marked him not. And yet he talked very wisely, biit I I'egarded him not. And yet he talked wisely ; and in the streets, too. 
P. Henri/. Thou didst well; for ''Wisdom cries out in the streets, and no man regards it." 
Falstaff. O, thou hast damnable iteration; and art, indeed, able to corrupt a saint. Thou hast done much harm upon me, Hal 5 God forgive thee for it ! Before I knew thee, Hal, I knew nothing ; and now am I, if a man should speak truly, little better than one of the wicked. I inust giA'^e over this life, and I will give it over : By the Lord, an I do not, I am a villain: I'll be damned for never a king's son in Christendom. 
P. Henry. Where shall we take a purse to-morrow. Jack? 
Falstaff. Where thou Avilt, lad ; I'll make one : an I do not, call me villain, and baflle me." 

 101 
We must take care^how we speak of Macheath, or we shall be said to be getting political again. Fielding's Jonathan Wild the Great is also, in tliis sense, " caveare to the multitude." But we would say more of him, if we had room. Count Fathom, a deliberate scoun- drel, compounded of the Jonathan Wilds and the more equivocal Cagliostros and otlier adventurers, is a thief not at all to our taste. We are continually obliged to call his mother to our recollection, in order to bear him. The only instance in which the character of an. absolute profligate pickpocket was ever made comparatively welcome to our graver feelings, is in the extraordinary novel of Manon L'Es- csLut by the Abbe Prevost. It is the story of a young man so passionately in love with a profligate female, that he follows her through every species of vice and misery, even when she is sent as a convict to New Orleans. His love indeed is returned. He is obliged to subsist upon her vices ; and in return, is induced to help her with his own, becoming a cheat and a swindler to supply her outrageous extravagances. On board the convict ship (if we recollect) he waits on her through every species of squalidness ; the convict-dress and her shaved head only redoubling his love by the help of pity. This seems a shocking and very immoral book ; yet multitudes of very reputable people have found a charm in it. The fact is, not only that Manon is beautifid, sprightly, really fond of her lover, and after all, becomes reformed ; but that it is delightful, and ought to be so, to the human heart, to see a vein of sentiment and real goodness look- ing out through all this callous surface of guilt. It is like meeting with a tree in a squalid hole of a city, — a flower, or a frank face, in. a reprobate purlieu. The capabilities of human nature are not com- promised. The virtue alone seems natural ; the guilt, as it so often is, seems ai'tificial, and the result of some bad education or other circumstance. Nor is any body injured. It is one of the shallowest of all shallow notions to talk of the harm of such works. Do we think nobody is to be harmed but the virtuous ! Or that there are not privileged harms and vices to be got rid of, as well as unprivileged ? No good-hearted person will be injured by reading Manon L'Escaut. There is the belief in goodness in it ; — a faith, the want of which does so much harm both to the vicious and to the over- righteous. 
The prince of all robbers, English or foreign, is undoubtedly Robin Hood. There is a worthy Scottish namesake of his, Rob Roy, who has been lately had justice done to all his injuries by a country- man ; and the author, it seems, has now come down from the borders to see the Rob of the elder times well treated. We were obliged to tear ourselves away from his first volume*, to go to this ill- repaying article. But Robin Hood will still remain the chief and '^gentlest of thieves." He acted upon a larger scale, or in opposition to a larger injustice, to a whole political system. He " shook the super- flux" to the poor, "and shewed the heavens more just." Howeveij, what we have to say of him we must keep till the trees are in leaf again, and the greenwood shade delightful. 
* Of Ivanhoe. 

102 
We dismiss, in one rabble-like heap, the real Jonathan Wilds, Aver- shaws, and other heroes of the Newgate Calendai*, who have no redemp- tion in their rascality. And after them, for gentlemen-valets, may go the Barringtnns, Major Semples, and other sneaking rogues, who held on a tremulous career of iniquity betwixt pilfering and repent- ing. Yet Jack Snepherd nmst not be forgotten, with his ingenious and daring breaks out of prison; nor Turpin, who is said to have ridden his horse with such swiftness from York to London, that he was enabled to set up an alibi. We have omitted to notice the cele- brated Buccaniers of America; but these are fellows, with regard to whom we are willing to take Dogberry's advice, and '^ steal out of their company." 
All hail, thou most attractive of scape-graces ; — thou most accom- plished of gentlemen of the road ; — thou, worthy to be called one of " the minions of the moon," — Monsieur Claude Du Vail, — whom we have come such a long and dangerous journey to see ! 
Claude Du Vail, according to a pleasant account of him, in the Harleian Miscellany, was born at Domfront in Normandy, in the year 1643, of Pierre du Vail, miller, and Marguerite de la Roche, the fair daughter of a tailor. Being a sprightly boy, he did not remain in the country, but became servant to a person of quality at Paris ; and with this gentleman he came over to England at the time of the Restoration. It is difficult to say, which came over to pick the most pockets and hearts, Charles the Second, or Claude Du Vail. Be this as it may, his " courses" of life, {" for," says the contemporary historian, " I dare not call them vices,") soon reduced him to the necessity of going upon the road ; and here " he quickly became so famous, that in a, proclamation for the taking several notorious highwaymen, he had the honour to be named first." He took, says his biographer, " the generous way of padding;" that is to say, he behaved with exemplary politeness to all coaches, especially those in which there were ladies ; making a point of frightening them as amiably as possible ; and insisting upon returning any favourite trinkets or keepsakes, for which they chose to' appeal to him with " their most sweet voices." 
It was in this character that he performed an exploit, which is the eternal feather in the cap of highway gentility. We will relate it in the words of ijur informer. Riding out with some of his confederates, " he overtakes a coach, which they had set over night, having in- telligence of a booty of four hundred pounds in it. In the coach was a knight, his lady, and only one serving-maid, who, perceiving five horsemen making up to them, presently imagined that they were beset ; and they i^ere confirmed in this apprehension, by seeing them whisper to one another, and ride backwards and forwards. The lady, to shew she was not afraid, takes a flageolet out of her pocket, and plays : Du Vail takes the hint, plays also, and excellently well, upon a flageolet of his own, and in this posture he rides up to the coach-side. ' Sir,' says he, to the person in the coach, ' your lady plays excel- lently, and I doubt not but that she dances as well ; will you please to walk out of the coach, and let me have the honour to dance one 

 103 
currant with her upon the heath ?' ' Sir,' said the person in the coach, * I dare not deny any thing to one of your quality and good mind 5 you seem a gentleman, and your request is very reasonable :' which said, the lacquey opens the boot, out comes the knight, Du Vail leaps lightly off his horse, and hands the lady out of the coach. They danced, and here it was that Du Vail performed marvels ; the best master in London, except those that are French, not being able to shew such footing as he did in his great riding French boots. The dancing being over, he waits on the lady to her coach. As the knight was going in, says Du Vail to him, ' Sir, you have forgot to pay the music :' ' No, I have not,' replies the knight, and putting his hand under the seat of the coach, pulls out a hundred pounds in a bag, and delivers it to him ; which Du Vail took with a vei v good grace, and courteously answered, ' Sir, you are liberal, and shall have no cause to repent your being so ; this liberality of yours shall ex- cuse you the other three hundred pounds,' and, giving him the word, that if he met with any more of the crew, he might pass un- disturbed, he civilly takes his leave of him. 
" This story, I confess, justifies the great kindness the ladies had for Du Vail ; for in this, as in an epitome, are contained all things that set a man off advantageously, and make him appear, as the phrase is, much a gentleman. First, here was valour, that he and but four more durst assault a knight, a lady, a waiting-gentlewo- man, a lacquey, a groom that rid by to open the gates, and the coachman, they being six to five, odds at football 5 and besides, Du Vail had much the worst cause, and reason to believe, that whoever should arrive, would range themselves on the enemy's party. Then he shewed his invention and sagacity, that he could sur le champ, and, without studying, make that advantage of the lady's playing on the flageolet. He evinced his skill in instrumental music, by playing on his flageolet j in vocal by his singing ; for (as I should have told you before) there being no violins, Du Vail sung the currant himself. 'He manifested his agility of body, by lightly dismounting off his horse, and with ease and freedom getting up again, when he took his leave 3 his excellent deportment, by his in- comparable dancing, and his graceful manner of taking the hundred pounds ; his generosity, in taking no more ; his wit and eloquence, and readiness at repartees, in the whole discourse with the knight and lady, the greatest part of which I have been forced to omit." 
The noise of the proclamation made Du Vail return to Paris ; but he came back in a short time for want of money. His reign however did not last long after his restoration. He made an unlucky attack, not upon some ill-bred passengers, but upon several • bottles of wine, and was taken in consequence at the Hole-in-the- Wall, in Chandos-street. His life was interceded for in vain : he was arraigned and committed to Newgate ; and executed at Tyburn in the 27th year of his age ; showers of tears from fair eyes bedewing his fate, both while alive in prison, and while dead at the fatal tree. 
Du Vall's success with the ladies of those days, whose amatory taste was of a turn more extensive than enlarged, seems to have made 

104 THE INDICATOR, 
some very well dressed English gentlemen jealous. The writer of I)u Vall's life, who is a man of wit, evidently has something of bit- terness in his railleries upon this point j but he manages them very pleasantly He pretends that he is an old bachelor, and has never been able to make his way with his fair countrywomen, on at count of the French valets that have stood in his way. He says he had two objects in writing the book. " One is, that the next Frenchman that is hanged may not cause an uproar in this imperial cityj which I doubt not but I have effected. 
" The other is a much harder task : To set my countryman on even terms with the French, as to the English ladies' affections. If I should bring this about,. I should esteem myself to have contributed much to the good of this kingdom. 
" One remedy there is, which, possibly, may conduce something towards it. 
■ ■ '' I have heai'd, that there is a new invention of transfusing the blood of one animal into another, and thaf it has been experimented by putting the blood of a sheep into an Englishman. 1 am against mat way of expei'iments ; for, should we make all Englishmen sheep, we should soon be a prey to the loure. 
" I think I can propose the making that experiment, a i"nore ad- vantageous way. I would have all gentlemen, who have been a full year, or more, out of France, be let blood weekly, or oftener, if they can bear it. Mark how much they bleed ; transfuse so much French lacquey's blood into them ; replenish these last out of the English footmen, for it is no matter what becomes of them. Repeat this opei'ation toties quoties, and, in process of time, you will find this fevent : Either the English gentlemen will be as much beloved as the French lacqueys, or the French lacqueys as little esteemed as the English gentlemen." 
Butler has left an Ode, sprihkled with his usual wit, " To the Happy Memory of the Most Renowned Du Val," who 
— Like a pious man, soriie years before The arrival of his fatal hour. Made every day he had ^o live To his last minute a proparative ; , 
Taught the wild Arabs on the road To act in a more ^eutle mode : TaJ<e prizes more obligingly from those, < Who never had been hr^djilous ; 
And bow to hang in a more graceful fashion. Than e'er was known before to the dull English nation. 
As it may be thought proper that we should end this lawless article with a good moral, we will give it two or three sentences from Shaks- peare worth a whole vohime of sermons against thieving ., The boy who belongs to FalstaflF's companions, and who begins to see through the shallowness of their cunniiig and way of life, says that Bardolph stole a lute-case, carried it twelve miles, and sold it for three halfpence. 
Orders i-eceived by the Newi^men; by the Boolcselleri!, and by the Publisher, Joseph ACTiiBVARD, No. 19, Catherine-.street, Strand.— Price 2d. . 
Pfintedby C. H. Rkvnell, No. 45,feroad-street, Oioldcnisquare. ' 

THE INDICATOR. 

There he arriving round about doth flie. And takes survey with busie, curious eye ; Now this, now that, he tasteth tenderly. 
Spenser. 

No. ;XIV.— WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 12th, 1820. 

A FEW THOUGHTS ON SLEEP. 
This is an article for the reader to think of, when he or she is warm in bed, a little before he goes to sleep, the clothes at his ear, and the wind moaning in some distant crevice. 
" Blessings," exclaimed Sancho, " on him that first invented sleep ! It wraps a man all round like a cloak." It is a delicious moment certainly, — that of being well nestled in bed, and feeling that you shall drop gently to sleep. The good is to come, not past : the limbs have been just tired enough, to render the remaining in one posture delightful : the labour of the day is done. A gentle failure of the perceptions comes creeping over one ■• — the spirit of consciousness disengages itself more and more, with slow and hushing degrees, like a mother detaching her hand from that of her sleeping child j — the mind seems to have a balmy lid closing over it, like the eye ; — 'tis closing ; — 'tis more closing ; — 'tis closed. The mysterious spii'it has gone to take it's airy rounds. 
It is said that sleep is best before midnight : and Nature herself, with her darkness and chilling dews, informs us so. There is another reason for going to bed betimes : for it is universally acknowledged that lying late in the morning is a great shortener of life. At least, it is never found in company with longevity. It also tends to make people corpulent. But these matters belong rather to the subject of early rising, than of sleep. 
Sleep at a late hour in the morning, is not half so pleasant as the more timely one. It is sometimes however excusable, especially to a, watchful or over- worked head j neither can we deny the seducing merits of " t' other doze," — the pleasing wilfulness of nestling in a new posture, when you know you ought to be up, like the rest of the house. But then you cut up the day, and your sleep the next liight. 
In the course of the day, few people think of sleeping, except after dinner ; and then it is often rather a hovering and nodding on the borders of sleep, than a sleep itself. This is a privilege, allowable, we think, to none but the old, or the sickly, or the very tired and care-worn ; and it should be well understood, before it is exercised in company. To escape into slumber from an argument j or to take 

106 
it as an aflair of course, only between you and your biliary duct ; or to assent with involuntary nods to all that you have just been disputing 5 is not so well : much less, to sit nodding and tottering beside a lady ; or to be in danger of dropping your head into the fruit- plate or your host's face ; or of waking up, and saying " Just so" to the bark of a dog, or " Yes, Madam" to the black at your elbow. 
Care-worn people however might refresh themselves oftener with day-sleep than they do ; if their bodily state is such as to dispose them to it. It is a mistake to suppose that all care is wakeful. People sometimes sleep, as well as wake, by reason of their sorrow. The difference seems to depend upon the nature of their tempe- rament ; though in the most excessive cases, sleep is perhaps Nature's never-failing relief, as swooning is upon the rack. A person with jaundice in- his blood shall lie down and go to sleep at noon-day, when another of a different complexion shall find his eyes as uncloseable as a statue's, though he has had no sleep for nights together. Without meaning to lesson the dignity of suffering, which has quite enough to do with it's waking hours, it is this that may often account for the profound sleeps enjoyed the night before hazardous battles, executions, and other demands upon an over-excited spirit. 
.. The most complete and healthy sleep that can be taken in the day, is in summer-time, out in a field. There is perhaps no solitary sen- sation so exquisite as that of slumbering on the grass or hay, shaded from the hot sun by a tree, with the consciousness of a fresh but light air running through the wide atmosphere, and the sky stretching far overhead upon all sides. Earth, and heaven, and a placid humanity, seem to have the creation to themselves. There is nothing between the sluraberer, and the naked and glad innocence of nature. 
Next to this, but at a long interval, the most, relishing snatch of slumber out of bed, is the one which a tired person takes, before he retires for the night, while lingering in his sitting-room. The con- sciousness of being very sleepy and of having the power to go to bed immediately, gives great zest to the unwillingness to move. Some- times he sits nodding in his chair j but the sudden and leaden jerks of the head to which a state of great sleepiness renders him liable, are generally too painful for so luxurious a moment j and he gets into a more legitimate posture, sitting sideways with his head on the chair-back, or throwing his legs up at once on another chair, and half reclining. It is curious however to find, how long an inconve- nient posture will be borne for the sake of this foretaste of repose. The worst of it is, that on going to bed, the charm sometimes va- nishes ; perhaps from the colder temperature of the chamber ; for a fireside is a great opiate. 
, Speaking of the painful positions into which a sleepy lounger will get himself, it is amusing to think of the more fantastic attitudes that so often take place in bed. If we could add any thing to the numberless things that have been said about sleep by the poets, it would be upon this point. Sleep never shews himself a greater 

 107 
leveller. A man in his waking moments may look as proud and self-possessed as he pleases. He may walk proudly, he may sit proudly, he may eat his dinner proudly ; he may shave himself with an air of infinite superiority ; in a word, he may shew himself grand and absurd upon the most trifling occasions. But Sleep plays the petrifying magician. He arrests the proudest lord as well as the humblest clown in the most ridiculous postures : so that if you could dra^Y a grandee from his bed without waking him, no limb-twisting fool in a pantomime should create wilder laughter. The toy with the string between it's legs is hardly a posture-master more extra- vagant. Imagine a despot lifted up to the gaze of his valets, with his eyes shut, his mouth open, his left hand under his right ear, his other twisted and hanging helplessly before him like an ideot's, one knee lifted up, and the other leg stretched out, or both knees hud- dled up together; what a scarecrow to lodge majestic power in ! 
But Sleep is kindly, even in his tricks ; and the poets have treated him with proper reverence. According to the ancient mythologists, he had even one of the Graces to wife. He had a thousand sons, of whom the chief were Morpheus, or the Shaper; Icelos, or the Likely; Phantasus, the Fancy ; and Phobetor, the Terror. His dwelling some writers place in a dull and darkling part of the earth; others, with greater compliment, in heaven ; and others, with another kind of propriety, by the sea-shore. There is a good description of it in Ovid; but in these abstracted tasks of poetry, the moderns outvie the ancients ; and there is nobody who has built his bower for him so finely as Spenser. Archimago in the first book of the Faery Queen, (Canto 1, St. 39.) sends a little spirit down to Morpheus to fetch him a Dream. 
He, making speedy way through spersed ayre, And through the world of waters, wide and deepe. To Morpheus' house doth hastily repaire. Amid the bowels of the earth full steepe. And low, where dawning day doth never peepe. His dwelling is. There, Tethys his wet bed Doth ever wash ; and Cynthia still doth steepe In silver dew his ever-drouping head, Whiles sad Night over him her mantle black doth spred. 
And more to lull him in his slumbler soft A trickling streame from high rocke tumbling downe. And ever-dringling rain upon the loft. Mixed with a murmuring winde, much like the soune Of swarming bees, did cast him in a swoune. No other noise, nor people's troublous cryes, As still are wont to annoy the walled towne. Might there be heard, but carelesse Quiet lyes. Wrapt in eternall silence, farre from enimyes. 
Chaucer has drawn the cave of the same god with greater simpli- city ; but nothing can have a more deep and sullen effect than his cliffs and cold running waters. It seems as real as an actual solitude, or some quaint old picture in a book of travels in Tartary. He is telling the story of Ceyx and Alcyone in the poem called his Dream. Juno tells a messenger to go to Morpheus and " bid him creep into 

108 
the body" of the drowned king, to let his wife know the fatal event by his apparition. 
This messenger tooke leave, and went Upon his way ; and never he stent Till he came to the dark valley. That stant betweenc rockes twey. There never yet grew corne, ne gras, Ne tree, ne nought that aught was. Beast ne man, ne naught else ; Save that there were a few wells Came running fro the the cliffs adowne. That made a deadly sleeping soune. And runnen downe right by a cave, That was under a rocke ygrave. Amid the valley, wonder-deepe. There these goddis lay asleepe, Morpheus and Eclynipasteire, That was the god of Sieepis heire. That slept and did none other worke. 
Where the credentials of this new son and heir, Eclympasteire, are to be found, we know not j but he acts very much, it must be al- lowed, like an heir presumptive, in sleeping, and doing " none other work." 
We dare not trust ourselves with many quotations upon sleep from the poets ; they are so numerous as well as beautiful. We must content ourselves with mentioning that our two most favourite pas- sages are one in the Philoctetes of Sophocles, admirable for it's contrast to a scene of terrible agony, which it closes*: and the other the following address in Beaumont. and Fletcher's tragedy of Valen- tinian, the hero of which is also a sufferer under bodily torment. He is in a chair, slumbering 3 and these most exquisite lines are gently sung with music. 
Care-charming Sleep, thou easer of all woes. Brother to Death, sweetly thyself dispose On this afflicted prince. Fall like a cloud In gentle showers : give nothing that is loud Or painful to his slumbers : easy, light, And as a purling stream; thou son of, Night, Pass by his troubled senses : sing his pain Like hollow murmuring wind, or silver rain : Into this prince, gently, oh gently slide ; And kiss him into slumbers, like a bride. 
How earnest and prayer-like are these pauses ! How lightly sprinkled, and yet how deeply settling, like rain, the fancy ! How quietj affec- tionate, and perfect the conclusion ! 
Sleep is most graceful in an infant ; soundest, in one who has been tired in the open air; completest, to the seaman after a hard voyage 5 most welcome, to the mind haunted with one idea ; mo^t touching to look at, in the parent that has wept 3 lightest, in the playful child 3 proudest, in the bride adored. 
* We do not translate it here, as we intend to present the reader with the whole scene in an article upon Philoctetes. 

 109 

THE FAIR REVENGE. 

The elements of this story are to be found in the old poetn called Albion's England, to which we referred in the article on Charles Brandon and Mary Queen of France, 
Aganippus, king of Argos, dying without heirs male, bequeathed his throne to his only daughter, the beautiful and beloved Daphles. This female succession was displeasing to a nobleman who held large possessions on the frontiers ; and he came for the first time towards the court, not to pay his respects to the new queen, but to give her battle. Doracles (for that was his name) was not much known by the people. He had distinguished himself for as jealous an indepen- dence as a subject could well assume ; and though he had been of use in repelling invasion during the latter years of the king, had never made his appearance to receive his master's thanks personally. A correspondence however was understood to have gone on between him and several noblemen about the court 3 and there were those, who in spite of his inattention to popularity, suspected that it would go hard with the young queen, when the two armies came face to face. 
But neither these subtle statesmen, nor the ambitious young sol- dier Doracles, were aware of the effects to be produced by a strong personal attachment. The young queen, amiable as she was beau- tiful, had involuntarily baffled his expectations from her courtiers, by exciting in the minds of some a real disinterested regard, while others nourished a hope of sharing her throne instead. At least, they specu- lated upon becoming, each the favourite minister ; and held it a better thing to reign under that title and a charming mistress, than be the servants of a master, wilful and domineering. By the people she was adored 3 and when she came riding out of her palace, on the morning of the fight, with an unaccustomed spear standing up in it's rest by her side, her diademed hair flowing a little off into the wind, her face paler than usual, but still tinted with it's roses, and a look in which confidence in the love of her subjects, and tenderness for the wounds they Avere going to encounter, seemed to contend for the expression, — ^the shout which they sent up would have told a stouter heart than a traitor's, that the royal charmer was secure. 
The queen, during the conflict, remained in a tent upon an emi- nence, to which the younger leaders vied who should best spur up their smoking horses, to bring her good news from time to time. The battle was short and bloody. Doracles soon found that he had miscalculated his point j and all his skiU and resolution could not set the error to rights. It was allowed, that if either courage or military talent could entitle him to the throne, he would have had a right to it 5 but the popularity of Daphles supplied her cause with all the ardour, which a lax state of subjection on the part of the more powerful nobles might have denied it. When her troops charged, or made any other voluntary movement, they put all their hearts into their blows ; and when they were compelled to await the enemy, they stood as inflexible as walls of iron. It was like hammering upon 

no 
metal statuary ; or staking their fated horses upon spears rivetted in stone. Doracles was taken prisoner. The queen, re-issuing from her tent, crowned with laurel, came riding down the eminence, and remained at the foot with her generals, while the prisoners were taken by. Her pale face kept as royal a countenance of composed pity as she could manage, while the commoner rebels passed along, aching with their wounded arms fastened behind, and shaking back their bloody and blinding locks for want of a hand to part them. But the blood mounted to her cheeks, when the proud and handsome Doracles, whom she now saw for the first time, blushed deeply as he cast a glance at his female conqueror, and then stepped haughtily along, handling his gilded chains as if they were an indifferent ornament. *' I have conquered him," thought she : " it is a heavy blow to so proud a head ; and as he looks not unamiable, it might be politic as well as courteous and kind in me to turn his submission into a more willing one." Alas ! pity was helping admiration to a kinder set of offices, than the generous-hearted queen suspected. The captive went to his prison, a conqueror after all 3 for Daphles-loved him. 
The second night, after having exhibited in her manners a strange mixture of joy and seriousness, and signified to her counsellors her inten- tion of setting the prisoner.free, she released him with her own hands. Many a step did she hesitate as she went down the stairs 5 and when she came to the door, she shed a full, but soft, and as it seemed to her a wilful and refreshing flood of tears, humbling herself for her approaching task. When she had entered, she blushed deeply, and then turning as pale, stood for a minute silent and without motion, She then said, " Thy queen, Doracles, has come to shew thee how kindly she can treat a great and gallant subject, who did not know her 3 " and with these words, and almost before she was aware, the prisoner was released, and preparing to go. He appeared surprised, but not off his guard, nor in any temper to be over-grateful. *^'Name," said he, ''O queen, the conditions on "tvhich 1 depart, and they will be faithfully kept." Daphles moved her lips, but they spoke not. She waved her head and hand with a deadly smile, as if free- ing him from all conditions ; and he was turning to go, when she fell senseless on the floor. The haughty warrior raised her with more impatience than goodwill. He could guess at love in a woman; but he had but a mean opinion both of it and her sex ; and the deadly struggle in the heart of Daphles did not help him to distinguish the romantic passion, which had induced her to put all her past and virgin notions of love into his person, from the commonest liking that inight flatter his soldierly vanity. . : 
The queen, on awaking from her swoon, found herself compelled, in very justice to the intensity of a true passion, to explain how pity had brought it upon her. " I might ask it," said she, " Doracles, in return;" and here she resumed something of her queen-like dig- nity J " but I feel that my modesty will be sufficiently saved by the name of your wife : and a substantial throne, with a return th^at shall nothing perplex or, interfere with thee, I do now accordingly^ 

 Ul 
offer theeji not as the coHditioii of thy freedom, but as a diversion of men's eyes and thoughts from what they will think ill in me, if they find me rejected." And in getting out that hard word, her voice £aultered a little, and hfer eyes filled with tears. 
Doracles, with thfe best grace his lately defeated spirit could as- sume, spoke in willing terms of accepting her ofier. They left the prison ; and his full pardon having been proclaimed, the courtiers, with feasts and entertainments, vied who should seem best to approve their mistress's choice ; for so they were quick to understand it. The late captive, who was really as graceful and accomplished as a proud spirit would let him be, received and returned all their atten- tion in princely sort j and Daphles was beginning to hope that he might turn a glad eye upon her some day, when news was brought her that he had gone from court, nobody knew whither. The next intelligence was too certain. He had passed the frontiers, and was leaguing with her enemies for another struggle. 
From that day, gladness, though not kindness, went out of the face ef Daphles. She wrote him a letter, without a word of reproach in it, enough to bring back the remotest heart that had the least spark of sympathy j but he only answered it in a spirit, which shewed that he regarded • the deepest love but as a wanton trifle. That letter touched her kind wits. She had had a paper drawn up, leaving him her throne in case she should die ; but some of her ministers, avail- ing themselves of her enfeebled spirit, had summoned a meeting of the nobles, at which she was to preside in the dress she wore on the day of victory j the sight of which, it was thought, with the argu- ments which they meant to use, would prevail upon the assembly to urge her to a revocation of the bequest. Her women dressed her, while she was almost unconscious of what they were doing, for she had now began to fade quickly, body as well as mind. They put on her the white garments edged with silver waves, in remembrance of the stream of Inachus, the founder of the Argive monarchy; the spear was brought out, to be stuck by the side of the throne, instead of the sceptre 3 and their hands prepared to put the same laurel on her head, which bound it's healthy white temples, when she sat on horse- back, and saw the prisoner go by. But at sight of it's twisted and withered green, she took it in her hand ; and looking about her in her chair with an air of momentary recollection, began picking it, and letting the leaves fall upon the floor. She went on thus, leaf after leaf, looking vacantly downwards ; and when she had stripped thie circle half round, she leaned her cheek against the side of heF, sick chair j and shutting her eyes quietly, so died. 
The envoys from Argos went to the court of Calydon, where Do- racles then was j and bringing him the diadem upon a black cushion, informed him at once of the death of the queen, and her nomination of him to the throne. He shewed little more than a ceremonious gravity at the former news ; but could ill contain his joy at the latter, and set off instantly to take possession. Among the other nobles who feasted him, was one who, having been the particular companion of the late king, had become like a second father to his unhappy 

112 
daughter. The new prince observing the melancholy which he scarcely affected to repress, and seeing him look np occasionally at a pic- ture which had a veil over it, asked him what the picture was that seem- ed to disturb him so, and why it was veiled. " If it be the portrait of the late king," saidDoracles," pray think me worthy of doing honour to it, for he was a noble prince. Unveil it, pray. I insist upon it. What ? Am I not worthy to look upon my predecessors, Phorbas?" And at these words, he frowned impatiently. Phorbas, with a trem- bling hand, but not for want of courage, withdrew the black cover- ing 5 and the portrait of Daphles, in all her youth and beauty, flashed upon the eyes of Doracles. It was not a melancholy face. It was drawn before misfortune had touched it, and sparkled with a bloom- ing beauty, in which animal spirits and good-nature contended for predominance. Doracles paused, and seemed struck. " The pos- sessor of that face," said he, inquiringly, ''^ could never have been so sorrowful, as I have heard?" — ''Pardon me, Sir," answered Phor- bas ; " I was as another father to her, and knew all." " It cannot be," returned the prince. The old man begged his other guests to with- draw a while, and then told Doracles how many fond and despairing things the queen had said of him, both before her wits began to fail, and after. " Her wits to fail?" murmured the king : " I have known what it is to feel almost a mad impatience of the will ; but I knew not that these — gentle creatures, wonien, could so feel for such a trifle." Phorbas brought out the laurel-crown, and told him how it was that the half of it became bare. The impatient blood of Do- racles mounted, but not in anger, to his face ; and breaking Up the party, he requested that the picture might be removed to his own chamber, promising to return it. 
A whole year however did he keep it ; and as he had no foreign enemies to occupy his time, nor was disposed to enter into the com- toon sports of peace, it was understood that he spent the greatest part of his time, when he was not in council, in the room where the picture hung. In truth, the image of the once smiling Daphles haunted him wherever he went ; and to ease himself of the yearning of wishing her alive again and seeing her face, he was in the habit of being with it as much as possible. His self-will turned upon him, even in that gentle shape. Millions of times did he wish back the loving author of his fortunes, whom he had treated with so clownish an ingratitude; and millions of ti .\ j did the sense of the impotence of his wish run up in red hurry to nis cheeks, and help to pull them into a gaunt melancholy. But this is not a repaying sorrow to dwell upon. He was one day, after being in vain expected at council, found lying madly on tUt floor of the room, dead.' He had torn the portrait from the wall. His dagger was in his heart ; and his cheek lay upon that blooming and smiling face, which had it been living, would never have looked so at being revenged. 

received by the Newsmen, by the Bookseller?, and by the Pablisher, Joseph Applbvabd, No. 19, Catherine-street, Strand.— Price 2d. Printed by C. H. Keyneli., No. 45, Broad-street, Goldea-square, London. 

THE INDICATOR. 
There he arriving round about doth flie. And takes survey with busie, curious eye : Now this, now that, he tasteth tenderly. 
Spenser. 

No. XV.— WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 19th, 1820. 

SPIRIT OF THE ANCIENT MYTHOLOGY. 
Fkom having a different creed of our own, and always encountering the heathen mythology in a poetical and fabulous shape, we are apt to have a false idea of the religious feeling of the ancients. ~- We are in the habit of supposing, whatever we allow when we come to reason upon the point, that they regarded their fables in the same poetical light as ourselves ; that they could not possibly put faith in Jupiter, Neptune, and Pluto j in the sacrifice of innocent turtle doves, the libation of wine, and the notions about Tartarus and Ixiori. 
Undoubtedly there were multitudes of free thinkers in the ancient world. Most of the Greek poets and philosophers appear to have differed with the literal notions of the many.^ A system of refined theism is understood to have been taught to the initiated in the celebrated Mysteries. The doctrines of Epicurus were so prevalerit in the most intellectual age of Rome, that Lucretius wrote a poem upon them, in which he treats their founder as a divinity j and Virgil, in a well-known passage of the Georgics, " Felix qui potuit" &e. exalts either Epicurus or Lucretius as a blessed being, who put hell and terror under his feet. A sickly temperament appears to have made him wish, rather than be able, to carry his own scepticism so far: yet he insinuates his disbelief in Tartarus in the sixth book of his epic poem, where ^neas and the Sybil, after the description of the lower world, go ou<. through the ivory gate, which was the pas- sage of false visions. f C-icsar, according to a speech of his in Sallust, derided the same notions in open Senate y and Cicero, in other parts of his writings, as well as in a public pleading, speaks of them as. fables and impertinence, — '' ineptiis ac fabulis." 
* It is remarkable that .iEschylus and Euripides, the two 'dramatists whose faith in the national religion was most doubted, are said to have met with strange and violent deaths. — The latter was torn to pieces by dogs, and the former killed by a tortoise which an eagle let fall upon his bald head in nrntdhe for a stmie. These exits^ from the scene look very like the retributive deatli-beds wliieh the bigots of all religions are so fond of ascribing to one another. 
f Did Dante forget this, when he took Virgil for his guide through the Inferno ' 

114 
But however this plain-dealing may look on the part of the men of letters, there is reason to believe that even in those times, the people in general were strong upon points of faith. The extension of the Greek philosophy may have insensibly rendered them familiar with latitudes of interpretation on the part of others. They would not think it impious in Cicero and Cato to have notions of the Supreme Being more consistent with the elevation of their minds. But for themselves, they adhered, from habit, to the literal creed of their ancestors, as the Greek populace had done before them. The jealous enemies of Socrates contrived to have him put to death on a charge of irreverence fpr the gods. 4 frolic of the libertine Alcibiades, which to say the least of it, was in very bad taste, — the defacing the statues of Mercury, — was followed with important consequences. The history of Socrates had the effect, in after times, at least in the ancient world,, of saving philosophical speculators from the vindictive egotism of opinion. But even in the days of Augustus, Ovid wij^o^e a popular work full of mythological fables ; and Virgil himself, whose creed perhaps only rejected what was unkindly, gave the hero o^ his intended popular epic, the particular appellation of Pious. Th^t Augustus should pique himself on the same attribute, proves little ; for he was a cold-blooded man of the wprl^, a,nd could play the hypocrite for the worst and most despotic purposes. Did he no.w a^d tMn lecture his poetical friends upon this point, respecting their awn appearances with the world ? There is a curious ode of Horace (Book 1. Od. 34.) in which he says that h,e finds himself cpjjopelled to give up his sceptical notions, and to attend more to public worship^ because it had thundered one day when, the sky was cl,oudless. Th^ critics are divided in their opinion of his object in this ode. Som^ think him in earnest, others in jest. It is the only thing of the sort in his works ; and is, at all events, of ari eqiiiyocal character thjat would serve his purpose on either side of th,e question. 
The opinions of the ancients upon religion may be diyid^d injtp three genera,! classes. The great multitude believed any thing ; the very few disbelieved every thing , the philo3ophers and poets enter- tained a refined natural religion, which while it pronounced uppja Jdothing, rejected what was evidently unworthy of the spirit; pf the ^creation, and regarded the popular deities, as personifications of it's various workings. All these classes hjad their extravaganceSj, in proportipn to their ignorance, or viciousness, pr m.etaphysical, pifer- plexity. The multitude, whpse notions were founded on ignoraj;ice, habit, and fear, admitted many absurd and some cruel imaginatipns. The mere man of the world measured every thing by his own vain and petty standard, and thought the whole goods of the universe a scraipble for the cunning and hypocritical. The over-refining fpUpwers of Platp, endeavpuring tp pierce intp the nature of things by the mere effort of the will, arrived at conclusions visible to none but their own yearning and impatient eyes ; and lost themselyef iiji the ethereal doginatisms of Plotinus and Porphyry. 
I^he greatest pleasure arising tp a ];no(Iern imaginatipf^ fropn the 

Tiife JNDIGATOR. il5 
ancient rtiytliblogy, is in a iningled sense of the ol(J popular belii&f ahd of the pHilbsophical refinenlents upon it. We take Apollo, and Mercury, £tnd Venus, as shapes that existed in popular credulity, as the greater fairies bf the ancient world ; and we regard them, at the same time, als personifications of all that is beautiful and genial in the fdrtn^ and tendencies of creation. But the result, coming as it does too thtough avenues of beautiful poetry, both ancient and modern, is so ehtii-ely chearful, that we are apt to think it must have wanted gravity to more believing eyes. We fancy that the old world saw nothing in- religion but lively and graceful shapes, as remote from the more obscure and awful hintings of the world unknown, as pby- sics appear to be from the metaphysical; — as the eye of a beai^tiful woman is from tlie inward speculations of a Brahmin 3 or a lily at noon-day from the wide obscurity of night-time. 
This supposition appears to be carried a great deal too far. We will not enquire in this place, how far the mass of mankind, when these shapes vi'ere done away, did or did not escape from a despotic anthropomorphitism ; nor how far they were driven by the vaguer fears, and thfe opening of a more visible eternity, into avoiding the whole subject, rather than courting it; nor how it is, that the nobler practical religion which was afforded them, has been unable to bring back their frightened theology from the angry and avaricious pursuits into which they fled for refuge. But setting aside the portion of ter- ror, of which heathenism partook in common with all faiths originat- ing in uncultivated times, the ordinary run of pagans were perhaps more impressed with a sense of the invisible world, in consequence of the very visions presented to their imagination, than the same description of men under a more shadowy system. There is the same ditference between the two things, as between a populace believing in fairies, and a pOpulace not believing. The latter is in the high road to something better, if not drawn aside into new terrors on the one hand, or mere worldliness on the other. But the former is led to look out of the mere worldly common-places about it, twenty times to the other's once. It has a sense of a supernatural state of things, however gross. It has a link with another world, from which some- thirik like gravity is sure to strike into the most chearful heart. Every forest, to the mind's eye of a Greek, was haunted with superica*^ intelligences. Every stream had it's presiding nymph, who was thanked for the dratight of water. Every house had it's protecting gods, which had blessed the inmate's ancestors; and which would bless him also, if he cultivated the social affections : for the same word which expressed piety towards the Gods, expressed love to- wards relations and friends. If in all this there was nothing but the worship of a more graceful humanity, there may be worships much worse as well as much better. And the divinest spirit that ever appeared on earth has told us, that the eixtension of human sympathy embraces all that is' required of us, either to do or to foresee. 
Imagine the feelings with which an ancient believer must have gone by the oracular oaks of Dodona^ or the calm groves of the 

116 
Eumenides, or the fountain where Proserpine vanished underground with Pluto ; or the Great Temple of the Mysteries at Eleusis ; or the laurelled mountain Parnassus, on the side of which was the temple of Delphi, where Apollo was supposed to be present in person. Ima- gine Plutarch, a devout and yet a liberal believer, wjien he went to study theology and philosophy at Delphi : with what feelings must he not have passed along the woody paths of the hill, approaching nearer every instant to the presence of the divinity, and not sure that a glance of light through the trees was not the lustre of the god himself going by. This is mere poetry to us, and very fine it is j but to -him it was poetry, and religion, and beauty, and gravity, and hushing awe, and a path as from one world to another. 
With similar feelings he would cross the ocean, an element that naturally detaches the mind from earth, and which the ancients regarded as especially doing so. He had been in the Carpathian sea^ the favourite haunt of Proteus, who was supposed to be gifted above every other deity with a knowledge of the causes of things. Towards evening, when the winds were rising, and the sailors had made their vows to Neptune, he would think of the old '' shepherd of the seas, of yore," and believe it possible that he might become visible to his eyesight, driving through the darkling waters, and turning the sacred wildness of his face towards the blessed ship. 
In all this, there is a deeper sense of another world, than in the habit of contenting oneself with a few vague terms and embodying nothing but Mammon. There is a deeper sense of another world, precisely because there is a deeper sense of the present j of it's varieties, it's benignities, it's mystery. It was a strong sense of this, which made a living poet, who is accounted very orthodox in his religious opinions, give vent, in that fine sonnet, to his impatience at seeing the beautiful planet we live upon, with all it's starry wonders about it, so little thought of, compared with what is ridiculously called the world. He seems to have dreaded the symptom, as an evidence of materialism, and of the planets being dry self-existing things, peopled with mere successive mortalities, and unconnected with any superintendance or consciousness in the universe about them. It is abhorrent from all we think and feel, that they should be so : and yet Love might make heavens of them, if they were. 
" The world is too much with us. Late and soon. 
Getting and spending, we lay waste our powers : 
Little we see in Nature that is ours : 
We have given our hearts away, a sordid boon I 
This Sea that bares her bosom to the moon ; 
The Winds that will be howling at all hours. 
And are npgathered now like sleeping flowers; 
For this, for every thing, we are out of tune ; 
It moves us not. — Great God ! I'd rather be 
A Pagan suckled in a creed outworn, 
So might I, standing on tliis pleasant lea. 
Have glimpses tViat would make me less forlorn ; 
Have sight of Proteus coming from the sea ; 
Or hear old Triton blow his wreathed born." 

 117 

GETTING UP ON COLD MORNINGS. 
An Italian author, — Giulio Cordara, a Jesuit, — ^has written a poem upon Insects, which he begins by insisting, that those troublesome and abominable little animals were created for our annoyance, and that they were certainly not inhabitants of Paradise, We of the North may dispute this piece of theology ; but on the other hand, it is as clear as the snow on the house-tops, that Adam was not under the necessity of shaving •■, and that when Eve walked out of her deli- cious bower, she did not step upon ice three inches Ihick. 
Some people say it is a very easy thing to get up of a cold morn- ing. You have only, they tell you, to take the resolution ; and the thing is done. This may be very true ; just as a boy at school has only to take a flogging, and the thing is over. But we have not at all made up our minds upon it ; and we find it a very pleasant exer- cise to discuss the matter, candidly, before we get up. This at least is not idling, though it may be lying. It affords an excellent answer to those, who ask how lying in bed can be indulged in by a reasoning being, — a rational creature. How ? Why with the argument calmly at work in one's head, and the clothes over one's shoulder. Oh — it is a fine way of spending a sensible, impartial half-hour. 
If these people would be more charitable, they would get on with their argument better. But they are apt to reason so ill, and to assert so dogmatically, that one could wish to have them stand round one's bed of a bitter morning, and lie before their faces. They ought to hear both sides of the bed, the inside and out. If they cannot en- tertain themselves with their own thoughts for half an hour or so, it is not the fault of those who can. If their will is never pulled aside by the enticing arms of imagination, so much the luckier for the stage-coachman. 
Candid inquirers into one's decumbency, besides the greater or less privileges to be allowed a man in proportion to his ability of keeping early hours, the work given his faculties, &c., wiU at least concede their due merits to such representations as the following. In the first place, says the injured but calm appealer, I have been warm all night, and find my system in a state perfectly suitable to a warm-blooded animal. To get out of this state into the cold, besideg the inharmonious and uncritical abruptness of the transition, is so unnatural to such a creature, that the poets, refining upon the tor- tures of the damned, make one of their greatest agonies consist in being suddenly transported from heat to cold, — from fire to ice. They are " haled " out of their " beds," says Milton, by " harpy-footed furies," — fellows who come to call them. — On my first movement towards the anticipation of getting up, I find that such parts of the sheets and bolster, as are exposed to the air of the room, are stone cold. On opening my eyes, the first thing that meets them is my own breath rolling forth, as if in the open air, like smoke out of a cottage-chimney. Think of this symptom. Then I turn my eyes sideways and see the window all frozen over. Think of that. Then the servant comes in. " It is very cold this morning, is it not?" 

118 
*' Very cold. Sir.'* — " Very cold indeed, isn't it ?" — " Very cold in- deed. Sir." — "^More than usually so, isn't it, even for this weather ?" (Here the servant's wit and good nature are put to a consideratjle test, and the inquirer lies on thorns for the answer.) " Why, Sir - - - - I think it is." (Good creature ! There is not a better, or more truth-telling servant going.) " I must rise however — Get me some warm water." — Here comes a fine interval between the departure of the servant and the arrival of the hot water ; during which, of course, it is of " no use " to get up. The hot water comes. " Is it quite hot?" — " Yes, Sir." — " Perhaps too hot for shaving: I must wait a little ?"—" No, Sir J it will just do." (There is an over-nice propriety sometimes, an ofl&cious zeal of virtue, a little troublesome.) ""Oh — the shirt— you must air my clean shirt: — linen gets very damp this weather."— Yes, Sir." Here another delicious five minutes. A knock at the door. " Oh, the shirt — very well. My stockings — I think the stockings had better be aired too." — " Very well. Sir." — -Here another interval. At length every thing is ready, except myself. I now,'continues our incumbent (a happy word, by the bye, for a coun- try vicar) — I now cannot help thinking a good deal — who can ? — ■ upon the unnecessary and villainous custom of shaving : it is a thing so unmanly (here I nestle closer) — so effeminate (here I recoil froih an unlucky step into the colder part of the bed.) — No wonder, that the Queen of France took part with the rebels against that degene- rate Kingi her husband, who first affronted her smooth visage witlit a face like her own. The Emperor -Julian never showed the IttxU- rianCy of his genius to better advantage than in reviving the flowing beard. Look at Cardinal Bembo's picture — at Michael Angelo's— ^ at Titian's— ^at Shakspeare's— at Fletcher's — at Spenser's — at Chau- cer's—at Alfred's-^at Plato's. — I could name a great man for every tick of my watch. — Look at the Turks, a grave and otiose people.— Think of Haroun Al Raschid and Bed-ridden Hassan — Think of Wortley Montague, the worthy son of his mother, a man above the prejudice of his time — Look at the Persian gentlemen, whom ofie is ashamed of meeting about the suburbs, their dress and appear- ance are so much finer than our own — Lastly, think of the razor itself — how totally opposed to every sensation of bed — how cold, ho-w edgy, how hard! how utterly different frond any thing like the wafrn and circling amplitude, which 
Sweetly recommends itself Unto our gentle senses. 
Add to this, benumbed fingers, which may help you to cut yourself, a quivering body, a frozen towel, and an ewer full of ice 3 and he that says there is nothing to oppose in all this, only shews, at any rate, that he has no merit in opposing it. 
Thomson the poet, who exclaims in his Seasons — 
Falsely luxuriovis ! Will not man awake? wi no f 
used t6 life iff bed till noon-, because he said he had no motive ift^^l'-^ ting up. He could imagine the good of rising; but then h6 cotfld^ also imagine the good of lying stiilj and his exclamation, it rdttst' hi^ 

 U9 
allowed^ was made upon summcsr-tiqie, not winter, We must pro- portion the argument to the individual character. A money-getter may be drawn out of his bed by three and four-pence; but this will not suffice for a student. A proud man may say " What shall I think of myself, if \ don't get i\p?" but the more humble one will be content to waive this prodigious notion of himself, out of respect to his kindly bpd. Th^ mechanical man shall get up without any ado at all; and so shall the barometer- An ingenious lier in bed will find hard mat- . ter of discussion even on the score of health and longevity. He will ask us for our proofs and precedents of the ill effects of lying later in cold weather ; and sophisticate much on the advantages of an even temperature of body ; of the natural propensity (pretty universal) to have one's way ; and of the animals that roll themselves up^ and sleep all the winter. As to longevity, he will ask whether the longest life is of necessity the best ; apd whether Holborn is the handsomest street in ^jondon. 
We only know of one confounding, not to say confounded argument, fit to overture th^ huge luxury, the " enormous bliss" — of the vice in question. A lier in bed may be allowed to profess a disinterested indifference for his health or longevity; but while he is shewing the reasonableness of consulting his own, or one person's comfort^ he must admit the p:foportionate claim of more than one ; and the best way to deal with him is this, especially for a lady ; for we earnestly recommend the use of that sex on such occasions, if not somewhat ouer-persuasive ; since extremes have an awkward knack of meeting. First then, admit all the ingeniousness of what he says, telling him that the bar has been deprived of an excellent lawyer. Then look at him in the most goodnatured manner in the world, with a mixture of assent and appeal in your countenance, and tell him that you are waiting breakfast for him ; that you never like to breakfast without him ; that you really want it too ; that the servents want theirs ; that you shall not know how to get the hotise into order, unless he rises ; and that you are sure he would do things twenty times worse, even than getting out of his warm bed, to put them all into good humour and a state of comfort. Then, after having said this, throw in the comparatively indifferent matter, to him, about his health ; but tell him that it is no indifferent matter to you ; that the sight of his illness makes more people suffer than one ; but that if nevertheless, 
he really does feel so very sleepy and so very much refreshed by 
Yet stay ; we hardly know whethei; the frailty of a — Yes, yes ; say that too, especially if you say it with' sincerity ; for if the weakness of human nature on the one hand, and the vis inertice on the other, should lead him to take advantage of it once or twice, good-humour and sincerity form an irresistible junction at last; and are still better and warmer things than pillows and blankets. 
Other little helps of appeal may be thrown in, as occasion requires. 
You may tell a lover for instance, that lying in bed makes people 
corpulent j a father, that you wish, him to complete the fine manly 
■ example he sets.his children ; a lady, that she will injure her bloom 
or her shape, which M. or W, adipires so much; and a student or 

120 
artist, that he is always so glad to have done a good day's work,' in his best manner. 
Reader. And pray, Mr. Indicator, how do you behave yourself in this respect ? • 
Indie. Oh, Madam, perfectly, of course ; like all advisers. 
Reader. Nay, I allow that your mode of argument does not look quite so suspicious as the old way of sermonizing and severity, but I have my doubts, especially from that laugh of yours. If I should look in to-morrow morning 
Indie. Ah, Madam, the look in of a face like yours does any thing 
with me. It shall fetch me up at nine, if you please six, 1 meant 
to say. ' 
V 
It does not enter within the plan, or perhaps we should rather say, the understood promises, of this little weekly publication, to relieve the Editor with tnuch correspondence ; but he is glad when he can indulge himself, in proportion ; and he inserts with pleasure the fol- lowing piece of poetry, which is .very much to his heathenish taste. 
vox ET PRJETEREA. NIHIL. Oh! what a voice is silent. It was soft As mouutain-echoes, when the winds aloft (The gentle winds of summer) meet in caves ; Or when in sheltered places the white waves Are 'waken'd into music, as the breeze Dimples and stems the clirrent : or as trees Shaking their green locks in the days of June : Or Delphic girls when to the maiden moon They sang harmonious pray'rs: or sounds that come (However near) like a faint distant hum Out of the grass, from which mysterious birth We guess the busy secrets of the earth. — Like the low voice of Syrinx, when she ran Into the forests from Arcadian Pan : Or sad (Enone's, when she pined away For Paris, or (and yet 'twas not so gay) As Helen's whisper when she came to Troy, Half sham'd to wander with that, blooming boy. Like air-touch'd harps in flowery casements hung; Like unto lovers' ears the wild words sung In garden bowers at twilight : like the sound Of Zephyr when he takes his nightly round In TMay, to see the roses all asleep : Or like the dim strain which along the deep The sea-maid utters to the sailors' ear, Telling of tempests, or of dangers near. Like Desdemona, who (when fear was strong Upon her soul) chaunted the willow song. Swan-like before she perish'd : or the tone Of flutes upon the waters heard alone: ■ = Like words that come upon the memory 
, Spoken by friends departed ; or the sigh A gentle girl breathes when sbe tries to hide The love her eyes betray to all beside. 
XXX. 

Ordcirs received by the Booksellers, by the Newsmen, and by the Publisher, Joseph A<>plevari^ 
No. 19, Catherine-street, Strand.— Price 2d. 
Printed by C. H. Rbynell, No. 45, Broad-street, Golden-square, London. 